<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Psalms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="old-testament" id="book-19-2" epub:type="volume">
			<header>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Second Book of</p>
				<p epub:type="title">Psalms</p>
			</header>
			<article id="chapter-42" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-1">1</sup>As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-2">2</sup>My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-3">3</sup>My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-4">4</sup>When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-5">5</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-6">6</sup>O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-7">7</sup>Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-8">8</sup>Yet the <b>Lord</b> will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-9">9</sup>I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-10">10</sup>As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-11">11</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-43" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-43-sup-1">1</sup>Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-43-sup-2">2</sup>For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-43-sup-3">3</sup>O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-43-sup-4">4</sup>Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy: yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-43-sup-5">5</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-44" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-1">1</sup>We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-2">2</sup>How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-3">3</sup>For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-4">4</sup>Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-5">5</sup>Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-6">6</sup>For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-7">7</sup>But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-8">8</sup>In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-9">9</sup>But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-10">10</sup>Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-11">11</sup>Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-12">12</sup>Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy wealth by their price.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-13">13</sup>Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-14">14</sup>Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-15">15</sup>My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-16">16</sup>For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-17">17</sup>All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-18">18</sup>Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-19">19</sup>Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-20">20</sup>If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-21">21</sup>Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-22">22</sup>Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-23">23</sup>Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-24">24</sup>Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-25">25</sup>For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-44-sup-26">26</sup>Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies’ sake.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-45" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-1">1</sup>My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-2">2</sup>Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-3">3</sup>Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-4">4</sup>And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-5">5</sup>Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king’s enemies; whereby the people fall under thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-6">6</sup>Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-7">7</sup>Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-8">8</sup>All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-9">9</sup>Kings’ daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-10">10</sup>Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-11">11</sup>So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-12">12</sup>And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-13">13</sup>The king’s daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-14">14</sup>She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-15">15</sup>With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king’s palace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-16">16</sup>Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-45-sup-17">17</sup>I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-46" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-1">1</sup>God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-2">2</sup>Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-3">3</sup>Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-4">4</sup>There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-5">5</sup>God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-6">6</sup>The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-7">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-8">8</sup>Come, behold the works of the <b>Lord</b>, what desolations he hath made in the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-9">9</sup>He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-10">10</sup>Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-46-sup-11">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-47" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-1">1</sup>O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-2">2</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-3">3</sup>He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-4">4</sup>He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-5">5</sup>God is gone up with a shout, the <b>Lord</b> with the sound of a trumpet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-6">6</sup>Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King, sing praises.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-7">7</sup>For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with understanding.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-8">8</sup>God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-47-sup-9">9</sup>The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God: he is greatly exalted.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-48" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-1">1</sup>Great is the <b>Lord</b>, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-2">2</sup>Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-3">3</sup>God is known in her palaces for a refuge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-4">4</sup>For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-5">5</sup>They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and hasted away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-6">6</sup>Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-7">7</sup>Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-8">8</sup>As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-9">9</sup>We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-10">10</sup>According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-11">11</sup>Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-12">12</sup>Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-13">13</sup>Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-48-sup-14">14</sup>For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even unto death.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-49" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-1">1</sup>Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-2">2</sup>Both low and high, rich and poor, together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-3">3</sup>My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-4">4</sup>I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-5">5</sup>Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-6">6</sup>They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-7">7</sup>None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-8">8</sup>(For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:)</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-9">9</sup>That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-10">10</sup>For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-11">11</sup>Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-12">12</sup>Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-13">13</sup>This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-14">14</sup>Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-15">15</sup>But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-16">16</sup>Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-17">17</sup>For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-18">18</sup>Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-19">19</sup>He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-49-sup-20">20</sup>Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-50" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">L</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-1">1</sup>The mighty God, even the <b>Lord</b>, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-2">2</sup>Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-3">3</sup>Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-4">4</sup>He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-5">5</sup>Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-6">6</sup>And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-7">7</sup>Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I am God, even thy God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-8">8</sup>I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-9">9</sup>I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy folds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-10">10</sup>For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-11">11</sup>I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-12">12</sup>If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-13">13</sup>Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-14">14</sup>Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-15">15</sup>And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-16">16</sup>But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-17">17</sup>Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-18">18</sup>When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-19">19</sup>Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-20">20</sup>Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother’s son.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-21">21</sup>These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-22">22</sup>Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-50-sup-23">23</sup>Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-51" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-1">1</sup>Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-2">2</sup>Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-3">3</sup>For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-4">4</sup>Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-5">5</sup>Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-6">6</sup>Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-7">7</sup>Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-8">8</sup>Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-9">9</sup>Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-10">10</sup>Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-11">11</sup>Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-12">12</sup>Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-13">13</sup>Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-14">14</sup>Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-15">15</sup>O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-16">16</sup>For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-17">17</sup>The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-18">18</sup>Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-51-sup-19">19</sup>Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-52" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-1">1</sup>Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth continually.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-2">2</sup>The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-3">3</sup>Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-4">4</sup>Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-5">5</sup>God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-6">6</sup>The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-7">7</sup>Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-8">8</sup>But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-52-sup-9">9</sup>I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-53" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-1">1</sup>The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-2">2</sup>God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-3">3</sup>Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-4">4</sup>Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-5">5</sup>There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-53-sup-6">6</sup>Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-54" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-1">1</sup>Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-2">2</sup>Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-3">3</sup>For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-4">4</sup>Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-5">5</sup>He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-6">6</sup>I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O <b>Lord</b>; for it is good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-54-sup-7">7</sup>For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-55" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-1">1</sup>Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-2">2</sup>Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-3">3</sup>Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-4">4</sup>My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-5">5</sup>Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-6">6</sup>And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-7">7</sup>Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-8">8</sup>I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-9">9</sup>Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-10">10</sup>Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-11">11</sup>Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-12">12</sup>For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-13">13</sup>But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-14">14</sup>We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in company.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-15">15</sup>Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-16">16</sup>As for me, I will call upon God; and the <b>Lord</b> shall save me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-17">17</sup>Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-18">18</sup>He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me: for there were many with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-19">19</sup>God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-20">20</sup>He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-21">21</sup>The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-22">22</sup>Cast thy burden upon the <b>Lord</b>, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-55-sup-23">23</sup>But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-56" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-1">1</sup>Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-2">2</sup>Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O thou most High.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-3">3</sup>What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-4">4</sup>In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-5">5</sup>Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-6">6</sup>They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-7">7</sup>Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the people, O God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-8">8</sup>Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-9">9</sup>When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-10">10</sup>In God will I praise his word: in the <b>Lord</b> will I praise his word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-11">11</sup>In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-12">12</sup>Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-56-sup-13">13</sup>For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-57" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-1">1</sup>Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-2">2</sup>I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all things for me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-3">3</sup>He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-4">4</sup>My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-5">5</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above all the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-6">6</sup>They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-7">7</sup>My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-8">8</sup>Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-9">9</sup>I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-10">10</sup>For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-57-sup-11">11</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-58" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-1">1</sup>Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-2">2</sup>Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-3">3</sup>The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-4">4</sup>Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-5">5</sup>Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-6">6</sup>Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-7">7</sup>Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-8">8</sup>As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-9">9</sup>Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-10">10</sup>The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-58-sup-11">11</sup>So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-59" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-1">1</sup>Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-2">2</sup>Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-3">3</sup>For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-4">4</sup>They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-5">5</sup>Thou therefore, O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-6">6</sup>They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-7">7</sup>Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, doth hear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-8">8</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-9">9</sup>Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-10">10</sup>The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-11">11</sup>Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-12">12</sup>For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-13">13</sup>Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-14">14</sup>And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-15">15</sup>Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-16">16</sup>But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-59-sup-17">17</sup>Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-60" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-1">1</sup>O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-2">2</sup>Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-3">3</sup>Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-4">4</sup>Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-5">5</sup>That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-6">6</sup>God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-7">7</sup>Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-8">8</sup>Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-9">9</sup>Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-10">10</sup>Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-11">11</sup>Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-60-sup-12">12</sup>Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-61" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-1">1</sup>Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-2">2</sup>From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-3">3</sup>For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-4">4</sup>I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-5">5</sup>For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-6">6</sup>Thou wilt prolong the king’s life: and his years as many generations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-7">7</sup>He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-61-sup-8">8</sup>So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-62" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-1">1</sup>Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-2">2</sup>He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-3">3</sup>How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-4">4</sup>They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-5">5</sup>My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-6">6</sup>He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-7">7</sup>In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-8">8</sup>Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-9">9</sup>Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-10">10</sup>Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-11">11</sup>God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-62-sup-12">12</sup>Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-63" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-1">1</sup>O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-2">2</sup>To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-3">3</sup>Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-4">4</sup>Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-5">5</sup>My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-6">6</sup>When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-7">7</sup>Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-8">8</sup>My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-9">9</sup>But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-10">10</sup>They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-63-sup-11">11</sup>But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-64" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-1">1</sup>Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-2">2</sup>Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-3">3</sup>Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-4">4</sup>That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-5">5</sup>They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-6">6</sup>They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-7">7</sup>But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-8">8</sup>So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-9">9</sup>And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-64-sup-10">10</sup>The righteous shall be glad in the <b>Lord</b>, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-65" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-1">1</sup>Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-2">2</sup>O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-3">3</sup>Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-4">4</sup>Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-5">5</sup>By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-6">6</sup>Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-7">7</sup>Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-8">8</sup>They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-9">9</sup>Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-10">10</sup>Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-11">11</sup>Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-12">12</sup>They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-65-sup-13">13</sup>The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-66" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-1">1</sup>Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-2">2</sup>Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-3">3</sup>Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-4">4</sup>All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-5">5</sup>Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-6">6</sup>He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-7">7</sup>He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-8">8</sup>O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-9">9</sup>Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-10">10</sup>For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-11">11</sup>Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-12">12</sup>Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-13">13</sup>I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-14">14</sup>Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-15">15</sup>I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-16">16</sup>Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-17">17</sup>I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-18">18</sup>If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-19">19</sup>But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-66-sup-20">20</sup>Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-67" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-1">1</sup>God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-2">2</sup>That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-3">3</sup>Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-4">4</sup>O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-5">5</sup>Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-6">6</sup>Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-67-sup-7">7</sup>God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-68" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-1">1</sup>Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-2">2</sup>As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-3">3</sup>But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-4">4</sup>Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name <b>Jah</b>, and rejoice before him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-5">5</sup>A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-6">6</sup>God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-7">7</sup>O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-8">8</sup>The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-9">9</sup>Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-10">10</sup>Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-11">11</sup>The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-12">12</sup>Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-13">13</sup>Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-14">14</sup>When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-15">15</sup>The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-16">16</sup>Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the <b>Lord</b> will dwell in it for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-17">17</sup>The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-18">18</sup>Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the <b>Lord</b> God might dwell among them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-19">19</sup>Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-20">20</sup>He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto <b>God</b> the Lord belong the issues from death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-21">21</sup>But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-22">22</sup>The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-23">23</sup>That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and the tongue of thy dogs in the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-24">24</sup>They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-25">25</sup>The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-26">26</sup>Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-27">27</sup>There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-28">28</sup>Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-29">29</sup>Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-30">30</sup>Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-31">31</sup>Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-32">32</sup>Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-33">33</sup>To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-34">34</sup>Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-68-sup-35">35</sup>O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-69" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-1">1</sup>Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-2">2</sup>I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-3">3</sup>I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-4">4</sup>They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-5">5</sup>O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-6">6</sup>Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord <b>God</b> of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-7">7</sup>Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-8">8</sup>I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother’s children.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-9">9</sup>For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-10">10</sup>When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-11">11</sup>I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-12">12</sup>They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-13">13</sup>But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-14">14</sup>Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-15">15</sup>Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-16">16</sup>Hear me, O <b>Lord</b>; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-17">17</sup>And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-18">18</sup>Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-19">19</sup>Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-20">20</sup>Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-21">21</sup>They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-22">22</sup>Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-23">23</sup>Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-24">24</sup>Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-25">25</sup>Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-26">26</sup>For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-27">27</sup>Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-28">28</sup>Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-29">29</sup>But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-30">30</sup>I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-31">31</sup>This also shall please the <b>Lord</b> better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-32">32</sup>The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-33">33</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-34">34</sup>Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-35">35</sup>For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-69-sup-36">36</sup>The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-70" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-70-sup-1">1</sup>Make haste, O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-70-sup-2">2</sup>Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-70-sup-3">3</sup>Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-70-sup-4">4</sup>Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-70-sup-5">5</sup>But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O <b>Lord</b>, make no tarrying.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-71" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-1">1</sup>In thee, O <b>Lord</b>, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-2">2</sup>Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-3">3</sup>Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-4">4</sup>Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-5">5</sup>For thou art my hope, O Lord <b>God</b>: thou art my trust from my youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-6">6</sup>By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother’s bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-7">7</sup>I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-8">8</sup>Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all the day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-9">9</sup>Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-10">10</sup>For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-11">11</sup>Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-12">12</sup>O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-13">13</sup>Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-14">14</sup>But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-15">15</sup>My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-16">16</sup>I will go in the strength of the Lord <b>God</b>: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-17">17</sup>O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-18">18</sup>Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-19">19</sup>Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-20">20</sup>Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-21">21</sup>Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-22">22</sup>I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-23">23</sup>My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-71-sup-24">24</sup>My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-72" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-1">1</sup>Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king’s son.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-2">2</sup>He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-3">3</sup>The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-4">4</sup>He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-5">5</sup>They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-6">6</sup>He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-7">7</sup>In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-8">8</sup>He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-9">9</sup>They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-10">10</sup>The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-11">11</sup>Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-12">12</sup>For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-13">13</sup>He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-14">14</sup>He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-15">15</sup>And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-16">16</sup>There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-17">17</sup>His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-18">18</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-19">19</sup>And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-72-sup-20">20</sup>The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
