<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Haggai</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="old-testament" id="book-37" epub:type="volume">
			<header>
				<h3 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Haggai</h3>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Book of</p>
				<p epub:type="title">Haggai</p>
			</header>
			<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-1">1</sup>In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the <b>Lord</b> by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-2">2</sup>Thus speaketh the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the <b>Lord</b>’s house should be built.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-3">3</sup>Then came the word of the <b>Lord</b> by Haggai the prophet, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-4">4</sup>Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste?</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-5">5</sup>Now therefore thus saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; Consider your ways.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-6">6</sup>Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-7">7</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; Consider your ways.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-8">8</sup>Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-9">9</sup>Ye looked for much, and, lo it came to little; and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-10">10</sup>Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-11">11</sup>And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-12">12</sup>Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the <b>Lord</b> their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the <b>Lord</b> their God had sent him, and the people did fear before the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-13">13</sup>Then spake Haggai the <b>Lord</b>’s messenger in the <b>Lord</b>’s message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-14">14</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, their God,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-15">15</sup>In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-1">1</sup>In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of the <b>Lord</b> by the prophet Haggai, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-2">2</sup>Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-3">3</sup>Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? and how do ye see it now? is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing?</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-4">4</sup>Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, saith the <b>Lord</b>; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the <b>Lord</b>, and work: for I am with you, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts:</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-5">5</sup>According to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you: fear ye not.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-6">6</sup>For thus saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land;</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-7">7</sup>And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-8">8</sup>The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-9">9</sup>The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-10">10</sup>In the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the <b>Lord</b> by Haggai the prophet, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-11">11</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-12">12</sup>If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priests answered and said, No.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-13">13</sup>Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-14">14</sup>Then answered Haggai, and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith the <b>Lord</b>; and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-15">15</sup>And now, I pray you, consider from this day and upward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the <b>Lord</b>:</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-16">16</sup>Since those days were, when one came to an heap of twenty measures, there were but ten: when one came to the pressfat for to draw out fifty vessels out of the press, there were but twenty.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-17">17</sup>I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the labours of your hands; yet ye turned not to me, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-18">18</sup>Consider now from this day and upward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, even from the day that the foundation of the <b>Lord</b>’s temple was laid, consider it.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-19">19</sup>Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, as yet the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree, hath not brought forth: from this day will I bless you.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-20">20</sup>And again the word of the <b>Lord</b> came unto Haggai in the four and twentieth day of the month, saying,</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-21">21</sup>Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-22">22</sup>And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the heathen; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-23">23</sup>In that day, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, saith the <b>Lord</b>, and will make thee as a signet: for I have chosen thee, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
