<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Psalms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="old-testament" id="book-19-3" epub:type="volume">
			<header>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Third Book of</p>
				<p epub:type="title">Psalms</p>
			</header>
			<article id="chapter-73" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-1">1</sup>Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-2">2</sup>But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-3">3</sup>For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-4">4</sup>For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-5">5</sup>They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-6">6</sup>Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them as a garment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-7">7</sup>Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-8">8</sup>They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-9">9</sup>They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-10">10</sup>Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-11">11</sup>And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-12">12</sup>Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-13">13</sup>Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-14">14</sup>For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-15">15</sup>If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-16">16</sup>When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-17">17</sup>Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-18">18</sup>Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-19">19</sup>How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-20">20</sup>As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-21">21</sup>Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-22">22</sup>So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-23">23</sup>Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-24">24</sup>Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-25">25</sup>Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-26">26</sup>My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-27">27</sup>For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-73-sup-28">28</sup>But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord <b>God</b>, that I may declare all thy works.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-74" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-1">1</sup>O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-2">2</sup>Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-3">3</sup>Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-4">4</sup>Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-5">5</sup>A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-6">6</sup>But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-7">7</sup>They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-8">8</sup>They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-9">9</sup>We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-10">10</sup>O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-11">11</sup>Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-12">12</sup>For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-13">13</sup>Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-14">14</sup>Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-15">15</sup>Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-16">16</sup>The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-17">17</sup>Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-18">18</sup>Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O <b>Lord</b>, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-19">19</sup>O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-20">20</sup>Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-21">21</sup>O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-22">22</sup>Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-74-sup-23">23</sup>Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-75" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-1">1</sup>Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-2">2</sup>When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-3">3</sup>The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-4">4</sup>I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-5">5</sup>Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-6">6</sup>For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-7">7</sup>But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-8">8</sup>For in the hand of the <b>Lord</b> there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-9">9</sup>But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-75-sup-10">10</sup>All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-76" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-1">1</sup>In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-2">2</sup>In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-3">3</sup>There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-4">4</sup>Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-5">5</sup>The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-6">6</sup>At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-7">7</sup>Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-8">8</sup>Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-9">9</sup>When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-10">10</sup>Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-11">11</sup>Vow, and pay unto the <b>Lord</b> your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-76-sup-12">12</sup>He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-77" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-1">1</sup>I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-2">2</sup>In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-3">3</sup>I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-4">4</sup>Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-5">5</sup>I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-6">6</sup>I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-7">7</sup>Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-8">8</sup>Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-9">9</sup>Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-10">10</sup>And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-11">11</sup>I will remember the works of the <b>Lord</b>: surely I will remember thy wonders of old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-12">12</sup>I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-13">13</sup>Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-14">14</sup>Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-15">15</sup>Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-16">16</sup>The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-17">17</sup>The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-18">18</sup>The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-19">19</sup>Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-77-sup-20">20</sup>Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-78" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-1">1</sup>Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-2">2</sup>I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-3">3</sup>Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-4">4</sup>We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the <b>Lord</b>, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-5">5</sup>For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-6">6</sup>That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-7">7</sup>That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-8">8</sup>And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-9">9</sup>The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-10">10</sup>They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-11">11</sup>And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-12">12</sup>Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-13">13</sup>He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-14">14</sup>In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-15">15</sup>He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-16">16</sup>He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-17">17</sup>And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-18">18</sup>And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-19">19</sup>Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-20">20</sup>Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-21">21</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-22">22</sup>Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-23">23</sup>Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-24">24</sup>And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-25">25</sup>Man did eat angels’ food: he sent them meat to the full.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-26">26</sup>He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-27">27</sup>He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-28">28</sup>And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-29">29</sup>So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-30">30</sup>They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-31">31</sup>The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-32">32</sup>For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-33">33</sup>Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-34">34</sup>When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-35">35</sup>And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-36">36</sup>Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-37">37</sup>For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-38">38</sup>But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-39">39</sup>For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-40">40</sup>How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-41">41</sup>Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-42">42</sup>They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-43">43</sup>How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-44">44</sup>And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-45">45</sup>He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-46">46</sup>He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-47">47</sup>He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-48">48</sup>He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-49">49</sup>He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-50">50</sup>He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-51">51</sup>And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-52">52</sup>But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-53">53</sup>And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-54">54</sup>And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-55">55</sup>He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-56">56</sup>Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-57">57</sup>But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-58">58</sup>For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-59">59</sup>When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-60">60</sup>So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-61">61</sup>And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy’s hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-62">62</sup>He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-63">63</sup>The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-64">64</sup>Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-65">65</sup>Then the <b>Lord</b> awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-66">66</sup>And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-67">67</sup>Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-68">68</sup>But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-69">69</sup>And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-70">70</sup>He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-71">71</sup>From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-78-sup-72">72</sup>So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-79" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-1">1</sup>O god, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-2">2</sup>The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-3">3</sup>Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-4">4</sup>We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-5">5</sup>How long, <b>Lord</b>? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-6">6</sup>Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-7">7</sup>For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-8">8</sup>O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-9">9</sup>Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name’s sake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-10">10</sup>Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-11">11</sup>Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-12">12</sup>And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-79-sup-13">13</sup>So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-80" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-1">1</sup>Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-2">2</sup>Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-3">3</sup>Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-4">4</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-5">5</sup>Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-6">6</sup>Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-7">7</sup>Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-8">8</sup>Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-9">9</sup>Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-10">10</sup>The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-11">11</sup>She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-12">12</sup>Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-13">13</sup>The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-14">14</sup>Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-15">15</sup>And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-16">16</sup>It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-17">17</sup>Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-18">18</sup>So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-80-sup-19">19</sup>Turn us again, O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-81" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-1">1</sup>Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-2">2</sup>Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-3">3</sup>Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-4">4</sup>For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-5">5</sup>This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-6">6</sup>I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-7">7</sup>Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-8">8</sup>Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-9">9</sup>There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-10">10</sup>I am the <b>Lord</b> thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-11">11</sup>But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-12">12</sup>So I gave them up unto their own hearts’ lust: and they walked in their own counsels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-13">13</sup>Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-14">14</sup>I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-15">15</sup>The haters of the <b>Lord</b> should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-81-sup-16">16</sup>He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-82" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-1">1</sup>God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-2">2</sup>How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-3">3</sup>Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-4">4</sup>Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-5">5</sup>They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-6">6</sup>I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-7">7</sup>But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-82-sup-8">8</sup>Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-83" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-1">1</sup>Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-2">2</sup>For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-3">3</sup>They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-4">4</sup>They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-5">5</sup>For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-6">6</sup>The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-7">7</sup>Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-8">8</sup>Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-9">9</sup>Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-10">10</sup>Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-11">11</sup>Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-12">12</sup>Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-13">13</sup>O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-14">14</sup>As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-15">15</sup>So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-16">16</sup>Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-17">17</sup>Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-83-sup-18">18</sup>That men may know that thou, whose name alone is <b>Jehovah</b>, art the most high over all the earth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-84" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-1">1</sup>How amiable are thy tabernacles, O <b>Lord</b> of hosts!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-2">2</sup>My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the <b>Lord</b>: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-3">3</sup>Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O <b>Lord</b> of hosts, my King, and my God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-4">4</sup>Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-5">5</sup>Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-6">6</sup>Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-7">7</sup>They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-8">8</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-9">9</sup>Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-10">10</sup>For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-11">11</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> God is a sun and shield: the <b>Lord</b> will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-84-sup-12">12</sup>O <b>Lord</b> of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-85" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXV</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-1">1</sup>Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-2">2</sup>Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-3">3</sup>Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-4">4</sup>Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-5">5</sup>Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-6">6</sup>Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-7">7</sup>Shew us thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, and grant us thy salvation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-8">8</sup>I will hear what God the <b>Lord</b> will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-9">9</sup>Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-10">10</sup>Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-11">11</sup>Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-12">12</sup>Yea, the <b>Lord</b> shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-85-sup-13">13</sup>Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-86" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVI</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-1">1</sup>Bow down thine ear, O <b>Lord</b>, hear me: for I am poor and needy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-2">2</sup>Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-3">3</sup>Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-4">4</sup>Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-5">5</sup>For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-6">6</sup>Give ear, O <b>Lord</b>, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-7">7</sup>In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-8">8</sup>Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are there any works like unto thy works.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-9">9</sup>All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-10">10</sup>For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God alone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-11">11</sup>Teach me thy way, O <b>Lord</b>; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-12">12</sup>I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-13">13</sup>For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-14">14</sup>O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-15">15</sup>But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-16">16</sup>O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-86-sup-17">17</sup>Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast holpen me, and comforted me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-87" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-1">1</sup>His foundation is in the holy mountains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-2">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-3">3</sup>Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-4">4</sup>I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-5">5</sup>And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-6">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-87-sup-7">7</sup>As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in thee.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-88" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVIII</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-1">1</sup>O lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-2">2</sup>Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-3">3</sup>For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-4">4</sup>I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-5">5</sup>Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-6">6</sup>Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-7">7</sup>Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-8">8</sup>Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-9">9</sup>Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: <b>Lord</b>, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-10">10</sup>Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-11">11</sup>Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-12">12</sup>Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-13">13</sup>But unto thee have I cried, O <b>Lord</b>; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-14">14</sup><b>Lord</b>, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-15">15</sup>I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distracted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-16">16</sup>Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-17">17</sup>They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-88-sup-18">18</sup>Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine acquaintance into darkness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chapter-89" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-1">1</sup>I will sing of the mercies of the <b>Lord</b> for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-2">2</sup>For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-3">3</sup>I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-4">4</sup>Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-5">5</sup>And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O <b>Lord</b>: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-6">6</sup>For who in the heaven can be compared unto the <b>Lord</b>? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the <b>Lord</b>?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-7">7</sup>God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-8">8</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, who is a strong <b>Lord</b> like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-9">9</sup>Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-10">10</sup>Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-11">11</sup>The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-12">12</sup>The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-13">13</sup>Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-14">14</sup>Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-15">15</sup>Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O <b>Lord</b>, in the light of thy countenance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-16">16</sup>In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-17">17</sup>For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-18">18</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-19">19</sup>Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-20">20</sup>I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-21">21</sup>With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-22">22</sup>The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-23">23</sup>And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-24">24</sup>But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-25">25</sup>I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-26">26</sup>He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-27">27</sup>Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-28">28</sup>My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-29">29</sup>His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-30">30</sup>If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-31">31</sup>If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-32">32</sup>Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-33">33</sup>Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-34">34</sup>My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-35">35</sup>Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-36">36</sup>His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-37">37</sup>It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-38">38</sup>But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-39">39</sup>Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-40">40</sup>Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-41">41</sup>All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-42">42</sup>Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-43">43</sup>Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-44">44</sup>Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-45">45</sup>The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-46">46</sup>How long, <b>Lord</b>? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-47">47</sup>Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-48">48</sup>What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-49">49</sup>Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-50">50</sup>Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-51">51</sup>Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O <b>Lord</b>; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><sup id="chapter-89-sup-52">52</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> for evermore. Amen, and Amen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
