<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Job</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="old-testament" id="book-18" epub:type="volume">
			<header>
				<h3 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Job</h3>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Book of</p>
				<p epub:type="title">Job</p>
			</header>
			<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-1">1</sup>There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-2">2</sup>And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-3">3</sup>His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-4">4</sup>And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day; and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-5">5</sup>And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-6">6</sup>Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the <b>Lord</b>, and Satan came also among them. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-7">7</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-8">8</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? <sup id="chapter-1-sup-9">9</sup>Then Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought? <sup id="chapter-1-sup-10">10</sup>Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-11">11</sup>But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-12">12</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-13">13</sup>And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house: <sup id="chapter-1-sup-14">14</sup>and there came a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding beside them: <sup id="chapter-1-sup-15">15</sup>and the Sabeans fell upon them, and took them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-16">16</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-17">17</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-18">18</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house: <sup id="chapter-1-sup-19">19</sup>and, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-1-sup-20">20</sup>Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped, <sup id="chapter-1-sup-21">21</sup>and said, Naked came I out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return thither: the <b>Lord</b> gave, and the <b>Lord</b> hath taken away; blessed be the name of the <b>Lord</b>. <sup id="chapter-1-sup-22">22</sup>In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-1">1</sup>Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the <b>Lord</b>, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the <b>Lord</b>. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-2">2</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-3">3</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-4">4</sup>And Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-5">5</sup>But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-6">6</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-7">7</sup>So went Satan forth from the presence of the <b>Lord</b>, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-8">8</sup>And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down among the ashes. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-9">9</sup>Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and die. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-10">10</sup>But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-2-sup-11">11</sup>Now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-12">12</sup>And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven. <sup id="chapter-2-sup-13">13</sup>So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief was very great.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-3-sup-1">1</sup>After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day. <sup id="chapter-3-sup-2">2</sup>And Job spake, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-3">3</sup>Let the day perish wherein I was born,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the night in which it was said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">There is a man child conceived.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-4">4</sup>Let that day be darkness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let not God regard it from above,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither let the light shine upon it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-5">5</sup>Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let a cloud dwell upon it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let the blackness of the day terrify it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-6">6</sup>As for that night, let darkness seize upon it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let it not be joined unto the days of the year,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let it not come into the number of the months.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-7">7</sup>Lo, let that night be solitary,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let no joyful voice come therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-8">8</sup>Let them curse it that curse the day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who are ready to raise up their mourning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-9">9</sup>Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let it look for light, but have none;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither let it see the dawning of the day:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-10">10</sup>Because it shut not up the doors of my mother’s womb,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor hid sorrow from mine eyes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-11">11</sup>Why died I not from the womb?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Why did I not give up the ghost</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When I came out of the belly?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-12">12</sup>Why did the knees prevent me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or why the breasts that I should suck?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-13">13</sup>For now should I have lain still and been quiet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I should have slept: then had I been at rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-14">14</sup>With kings and counsellors of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which build desolate places for themselves;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-15">15</sup>Or with princes that had gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who filled their houses with silver:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-16">16</sup>Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As infants which never saw light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-17">17</sup>There the wicked cease from troubling;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And there the weary be at rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-18">18</sup>There the prisoners rest together;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They hear not the voice of the oppressor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-19">19</sup>The small and great are there;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the servant is free from his master.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-20">20</sup>Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And life unto the bitter in soul;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-21">21</sup>Which long for death, but it cometh not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And dig for it more than for hid treasures;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-22">22</sup>Which rejoice exceedingly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And are glad, when they can find the grave?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-23">23</sup>Why is light given to a man whose way is hid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And whom God hath hedged in?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-24">24</sup>For my sighing cometh before I eat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my roarings are poured out like the waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-25">25</sup>For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that which I was afraid of is come unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-3-sup-26">26</sup>I was not in safety, neither had I rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither was I quiet; yet trouble came.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-4-sup-1">1</sup>Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-2">2</sup>If we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But who can withhold himself from speaking?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-3">3</sup>Behold, thou hast instructed many,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou hast strengthened the weak hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-4">4</sup>Thy words have upholden him that was falling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou hast strengthened the feeble knees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-5">5</sup>But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It toucheth thee, and thou art troubled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-6">6</sup>Is not this thy fear, thy confidence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thy hope, and the uprightness of thy ways?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-7">7</sup>Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or where were the righteous cut off?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-8">8</sup>Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sow wickedness, reap the same.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-9">9</sup>By the blast of God they perish,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And by the breath of his nostrils are they consumed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-10">10</sup>The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the teeth of the young lions, are broken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-11">11</sup>The old lion perisheth for lack of prey,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the stout lion’s whelps are scattered abroad.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-12">12</sup>Now a thing was secretly brought to me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine ear received a little thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-13">13</sup>In thoughts from the visions of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When deep sleep falleth on men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-14">14</sup>Fear came upon me, and trembling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which made all my bones to shake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-15">15</sup>Then a spirit passed before my face;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The hair of my flesh stood up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-16">16</sup>It stood still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But I could not discern the form thereof:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An image was before mine eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">There was silence, and I heard a voice, saying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-17">17</sup>Shall mortal man be more just than God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shall a man be more pure than his maker?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-18">18</sup>Behold, he put no trust in his servants;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his angels he charged with folly:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-19">19</sup>How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whose foundation is in the dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which are crushed before the moth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-20">20</sup>They are destroyed from morning to evening:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They perish for ever without any regarding it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-4-sup-21">21</sup>Doth not their excellency which is in them go away?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They die, even without wisdom.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-1">1</sup>Call now, if there be any that will answer thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to which of the saints wilt thou turn?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-2">2</sup>For wrath killeth the foolish man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And envy slayeth the silly one.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-3">3</sup>I have seen the foolish taking root:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But suddenly I cursed his habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-4">4</sup>His children are far from safety,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they are crushed in the gate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither is there any to deliver them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-5">5</sup>Whose harvest the hungry eateth up,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And taketh it even out of the thorns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the robber swalloweth up their substance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-6">6</sup>Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither doth trouble spring out of the ground;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-7">7</sup>Yet man is born unto trouble,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As the sparks fly upward.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-8">8</sup>I would seek unto God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And unto God would I commit my cause:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-9">9</sup>Which doeth great things and unsearchable;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Marvellous things without number:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-10">10</sup>Who giveth rain upon the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sendeth waters upon the fields:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-11">11</sup>To set up on high those that be low;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That those which mourn may be exalted to safety.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-12">12</sup>He disappointeth the devices of the crafty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So that their hands cannot perform their enterprise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-13">13</sup>He taketh the wise in their own craftiness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the counsel of the froward is carried headlong.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-14">14</sup>They meet with darkness in the day time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And grope in the noonday as in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-15">15</sup>But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And from the hand of the mighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-16">16</sup>So the poor hath hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And iniquity stoppeth her mouth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-17">17</sup>Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-18">18</sup>For he maketh sore, and bindeth up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He woundeth, and his hands make whole.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-19">19</sup>He shall deliver thee in six troubles:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-20">20</sup>In famine he shall redeem thee from death:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in war from the power of the sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-21">21</sup>Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-22">22</sup>At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-23">23</sup>For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-24">24</sup>And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-25">25</sup>Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thine offspring as the grass of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-26">26</sup>Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-5-sup-27">27</sup>Lo this, we have searched it, so it is;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hear it, and know thou it for thy good.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-6-sup-1">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-2">2</sup>Oh that my grief were throughly weighed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my calamity laid in the balances together!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-3">3</sup>For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore my words are swallowed up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-4">4</sup>For the arrows of the Almighty are within me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The poison whereof drinketh up my spirit:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The terrors of God do set themselves in array against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-5">5</sup>Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or loweth the ox over his fodder?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-6">6</sup>Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-7">7</sup>The things that my soul refused to touch</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Are as my sorrowful meat.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-8">8</sup>Oh that I might have my request;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that God would grant me the thing that I long for!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-9">9</sup>Even that it would please God to destroy me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-10">10</sup>Then should I yet have comfort;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-11">11</sup>What is my strength, that I should hope?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what is mine end, that I should prolong my life?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-12">12</sup>Is my strength the strength of stones?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or is my flesh of brass?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-13">13</sup>Is not my help in me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And is wisdom driven quite from me?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-14">14</sup>To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-15">15</sup>My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as the stream of brooks they pass away;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-16">16</sup>Which are blackish by reason of the ice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wherein the snow is hid:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-17">17</sup>What time they wax warm, they vanish:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-18">18</sup>The paths of their way are turned aside;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They go to nothing, and perish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-19">19</sup>The troops of Tema looked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The companies of Sheba waited for them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-20">20</sup>They were confounded because they had hoped;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They came thither, and were ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-21">21</sup>For now ye are nothing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ye see my casting down, and are afraid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-22">22</sup>Did I say, Bring unto me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or, Give a reward for me of your substance?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-23">23</sup>Or, Deliver me from the enemy’s hand?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-24">24</sup>Teach me, and I will hold my tongue:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And cause me to understand wherein I have erred.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-25">25</sup>How forcible are right words!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But what doth your arguing reprove?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-26">26</sup>Do ye imagine to reprove words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the speeches of one that is desperate, which are as wind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-27">27</sup>Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And ye dig a pit for your friend.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-28">28</sup>Now therefore be content, look upon me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For it is evident unto you if I lie.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-29">29</sup>Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, return again, my righteousness is in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-6-sup-30">30</sup>Is there iniquity in my tongue?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Cannot my taste discern perverse things?</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-1">1</sup>Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Are not his days also like the days of an hireling?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-2">2</sup>As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as an hireling looketh for the reward of his work:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-3">3</sup>So am I made to possess months of vanity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wearisome nights are appointed to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-4">4</sup>When I lie down, I say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When shall I arise, and the night be gone?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-5">5</sup>My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My skin is broken, and become loathsome.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-6">6</sup>My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And are spent without hope.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-7">7</sup>O remember that my life is wind:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Mine eye shall no more see good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-8">8</sup>The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thine eyes are upon me, and I am not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-9">9</sup>As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-10">10</sup>He shall return no more to his house,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall his place know him any more.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-11">11</sup>Therefore I will not refrain my mouth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will speak in the anguish of my spirit;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-12">12</sup>Am I a sea, or a whale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thou settest a watch over me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-13">13</sup>When I say, My bed shall comfort me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My couch shall ease my complaints;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-14">14</sup>Then thou scarest me with dreams,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And terrifiest me through visions:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-15">15</sup>So that my soul chooseth strangling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And death rather than my life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-16">16</sup>I loathe it; I would not live alway:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let me alone; for my days are vanity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-17">17</sup>What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-18">18</sup>And that thou shouldest visit him every morning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And try him every moment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-19">19</sup>How long wilt thou not depart from me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-20">20</sup>I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Why hast thou set me as a mark against thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So that I am a burden to myself?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-7-sup-21">21</sup>And why dost thou not pardon my transgression,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And take away my iniquity?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For now shall I sleep in the dust;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thou shalt seek me in the morning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But I shall not be.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-8-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-2">2</sup>How long wilt thou speak these things?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-3">3</sup>Doth God pervert judgment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or doth the Almighty pervert justice?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-4">4</sup>If thy children have sinned against him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he have cast them away for their transgression;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-5">5</sup>If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And make thy supplication to the Almighty;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-6">6</sup>If thou wert pure and upright;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Surely now he would awake for thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-7">7</sup>Though thy beginning was small,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet thy latter end should greatly increase.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-8">8</sup>For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And prepare thyself to the search of their fathers:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-9">9</sup>(For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Because our days upon earth are a shadow:)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-10">10</sup>Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And utter words out of their heart?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-11">11</sup>Can the rush grow up without mire?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Can the flag grow without water?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-12">12</sup>Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It withereth before any other herb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-13">13</sup>So are the paths of all that forget God;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the hypocrite’s hope shall perish:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-14">14</sup>Whose hope shall be cut off,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And whose trust shall be a spider’s web.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-15">15</sup>He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-16">16</sup>He is green before the sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his branch shooteth forth in his garden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-17">17</sup>His roots are wrapped about the heap,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And seeth the place of stones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-18">18</sup>If he destroy him from his place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then it shall deny him, saying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have not seen thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-19">19</sup>Behold, this is the joy of his way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And out of the earth shall others grow.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-20">20</sup>Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither will he help the evil doers:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-21">21</sup>Till he fill thy mouth with laughing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thy lips with rejoicing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-8-sup-22">22</sup>They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-9-sup-1">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-2">2</sup>I know it is so of a truth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But how should man be just with God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-3">3</sup>If he will contend with him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He cannot answer him one of a thousand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-4">4</sup>He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-5">5</sup>Which removeth the mountains, and they know not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which overturneth them in his anger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-6">6</sup>Which shaketh the earth out of her place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the pillars thereof tremble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-7">7</sup>Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sealeth up the stars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-8">8</sup>Which alone spreadeth out the heavens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And treadeth upon the waves of the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-9">9</sup>Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the chambers of the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-10">10</sup>Which doeth great things past finding out;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, and wonders without number.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-11">11</sup>Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He passeth on also, but I perceive him not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-12">12</sup>Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who will say unto him, What doest thou?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-13">13</sup>If God will not withdraw his anger,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The proud helpers do stoop under him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-14">14</sup>How much less shall I answer him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And choose out my words to reason with him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-15">15</sup>Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But I would make supplication to my judge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-16">16</sup>If I had called, and he had answered me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-17">17</sup>For he breaketh me with a tempest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And multiplieth my wounds without cause.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-18">18</sup>He will not suffer me to take my breath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But filleth me with bitterness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-19">19</sup>If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-20">20</sup>If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-21">21</sup>Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I would despise my life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-22">22</sup>This is one thing, therefore I said it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-23">23</sup>If the scourge slay suddenly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He will laugh at the trial of the innocent.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-24">24</sup>The earth is given into the hand of the wicked:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He covereth the faces of the judges thereof;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If not, where, and who is he?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-25">25</sup>Now my days are swifter than a post:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They flee away, they see no good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-26">26</sup>They are passed away as the swift ships:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As the eagle that hasteth to the prey.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-27">27</sup>If I say, I will forget my complaint,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-28">28</sup>I am afraid of all my sorrows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-29">29</sup>If I be wicked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Why then labour I in vain?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-30">30</sup>If I wash myself with snow water,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And make my hands never so clean;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-31">31</sup>Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine own clothes shall abhor me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-32">32</sup>For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And we should come together in judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-33">33</sup>Neither is there any daysman betwixt us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That might lay his hand upon us both.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-34">34</sup>Let him take his rod away from me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let not his fear terrify me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-9-sup-35">35</sup>Then would I speak, and not fear him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But it is not so with me.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-1">1</sup>My soul is weary of my life;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will leave my complaint upon myself;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-2">2</sup>I will say unto God, Do not condemn me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shew me wherefore thou contendest with me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-3">3</sup>Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shine upon the counsel of the wicked?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-4">4</sup>Hast thou eyes of flesh?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or seest thou as man seeth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-5">5</sup>Are thy days as the days of man?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Are thy years as man’s days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-6">6</sup>That thou enquirest after mine iniquity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And searchest after my sin?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-7">7</sup>Thou knowest that I am not wicked;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-8">8</sup>Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet thou dost destroy me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-9">9</sup>Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wilt thou bring me into dust again?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-10">10</sup>Hast thou not poured me out as milk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And curdled me like cheese?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-11">11</sup>Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hast fenced me with bones and sinews.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-12">12</sup>Thou hast granted me life and favour,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thy visitation hath preserved my spirit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-13">13</sup>And these things hast thou hid in thine heart:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I know that this is with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-14">14</sup>If I sin, then thou markest me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-15">15</sup>If I be wicked, woe unto me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am full of confusion;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore see thou mine affliction;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-16">16</sup>For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-17">17</sup>Thou renewest thy witnesses against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And increasest thine indignation upon me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Changes and war are against me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-18">18</sup>Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-19">19</sup>I should have been as though I had not been;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-20">20</sup>Are not my days few? cease then,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let me alone, that I may take comfort a little,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-21">21</sup>Before I go whence I shall not return,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-10-sup-22">22</sup>A land of darkness, as darkness itself;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And of the shadow of death, without any order,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And where the light is as darkness.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-11-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-2">2</sup>Should not the multitude of words be answered?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And should a man full of talk be justified?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-3">3</sup>Should thy lies make men hold their peace?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-4">4</sup>For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I am clean in thine eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-5">5</sup>But oh that God would speak,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And open his lips against thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-6">6</sup>And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That they are double to that which is!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-7">7</sup>Canst thou by searching find out God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-8">8</sup>It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Deeper than hell; what canst thou know?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-9">9</sup>The measure thereof is longer than the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And broader than the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-10">10</sup>If he cut off, and shut up,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or gather together, then who can hinder him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-11">11</sup>For he knoweth vain men:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-12">12</sup>For vain men would be wise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Though man be born like a wild ass’s colt.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-13">13</sup>If thou prepare thine heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And stretch out thine hands toward him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-14">14</sup>If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-15">15</sup>For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-16">16</sup>Because thou shalt forget thy misery,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And remember it as waters that pass away:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-17">17</sup>And thine age shall be clearer than the noonday:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-18">18</sup>And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, thou shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-19">19</sup>Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, many shall make suit unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-11-sup-20">20</sup>But the eyes of the wicked shall fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they shall not escape,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-12-sup-1">1</sup>And Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-2">2</sup>No doubt but ye are the people,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wisdom shall die with you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-3">3</sup>But I have understanding as well as you;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I am not inferior to you:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, who knoweth not such things as these?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-4">4</sup>I am as one mocked of his neighbour,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who calleth upon God, and he answereth him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The just upright man is laughed to scorn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-5">5</sup>He that is ready to slip with his feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-6">6</sup>The tabernacles of robbers prosper,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they that provoke God are secure;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-7">7</sup>But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-8">8</sup>Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-9">9</sup>Who knoweth not in all these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That the hand of the <b>Lord</b> hath wrought this?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-10">10</sup>In whose hand is the soul of every living thing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the breath of all mankind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-11">11</sup>Doth not the ear try words?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the mouth taste his meat?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-12">12</sup>With the ancient is wisdom;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in length of days understanding.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-13">13</sup>With him is wisdom and strength,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He hath counsel and understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-14">14</sup>Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-15">15</sup>Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-16">16</sup>With him is strength and wisdom:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The deceived and the deceiver are his.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-17">17</sup>He leadeth counsellors away spoiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And maketh the judges fools.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-18">18</sup>He looseth the bond of kings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And girdeth their loins with a girdle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-19">19</sup>He leadeth princes away spoiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And overthroweth the mighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-20">20</sup>He removeth away the speech of the trusty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And taketh away the understanding of the aged.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-21">21</sup>He poureth contempt upon princes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And weakeneth the strength of the mighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-22">22</sup>He discovereth deep things out of darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bringeth out to light the shadow of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-23">23</sup>He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-24">24</sup>He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-12-sup-25">25</sup>They grope in the dark without light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he maketh them to stagger like a drunken man.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-1">1</sup>Lo, mine eye hath seen all this,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Mine ear hath heard and understood it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-2">2</sup>What ye know, the same do I know also:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I am not inferior unto you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-3">3</sup>Surely I would speak to the Almighty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I desire to reason with God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-4">4</sup>But ye are forgers of lies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ye are all physicians of no value.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-5">5</sup>O that ye would altogether hold your peace!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And it should be your wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-6">6</sup>Hear now my reasoning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hearken to the pleadings of my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-7">7</sup>Will ye speak wickedly for God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And talk deceitfully for him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-8">8</sup>Will ye accept his person?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will ye contend for God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-9">9</sup>Is it good that he should search you out?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-10">10</sup>He will surely reprove you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If ye do secretly accept persons.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-11">11</sup>Shall not his excellency make you afraid?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his dread fall upon you?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-12">12</sup>Your remembrances are like unto ashes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your bodies to bodies of clay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-13">13</sup>Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let come on me what will.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-14">14</sup>Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And put my life in mine hand?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-15">15</sup>Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But I will maintain mine own ways before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-16">16</sup>He also shall be my salvation:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For an hypocrite shall not come before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-17">17</sup>Hear diligently my speech,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my declaration with your ears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-18">18</sup>Behold now, I have ordered my cause;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I know that I shall be justified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-19">19</sup>Who is he that will plead with me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-20">20</sup>Only do not two things unto me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then will I not hide myself from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-21">21</sup>Withdraw thine hand far from me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let not thy dread make me afraid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-22">22</sup>Then call thou, and I will answer:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or let me speak, and answer thou me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-23">23</sup>How many are mine iniquities and sins?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Make me to know my transgression and my sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-24">24</sup>Wherefore hidest thou thy face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And holdest me for thine enemy?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-25">25</sup>Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wilt thou pursue the dry stubble?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-26">26</sup>For thou writest bitter things against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-27">27</sup>Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And lookest narrowly unto all my paths;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-13-sup-28">28</sup>And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As a garment that is moth eaten.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-1">1</sup>Man that is born of a woman</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is of few days and full of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-2">2</sup>He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-3">3</sup>And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bringest me into judgment with thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-4">4</sup>Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Not one.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-5">5</sup>Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-6">6</sup>Turn from him, that he may rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-7">7</sup>For there is hope of a tree,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If it be cut down, that it will sprout again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that the tender branch thereof will not cease.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-8">8</sup>Though the root thereof wax old in the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the stock thereof die in the ground;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-9">9</sup>Yet through the scent of water it will bud,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bring forth boughs like a plant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-10">10</sup>But man dieth, and wasteth away:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-11">11</sup>As the waters fail from the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the flood decayeth and drieth up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-12">12</sup>So man lieth down, and riseth not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor be raised out of their sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-13">13</sup>O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-14">14</sup>If a man die, shall he live again?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">All the days of my appointed time will I wait,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till my change come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-15">15</sup>Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-16">16</sup>For now thou numberest my steps:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Dost thou not watch over my sin?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-17">17</sup>My transgression is sealed up in a bag,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou sewest up mine iniquity.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-18">18</sup>And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the rock is removed out of his place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-19">19</sup>The waters wear the stones:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou destroyest the hope of man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-20">20</sup>Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-21">21</sup>His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-14-sup-22">22</sup>But his flesh upon him shall have pain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his soul within him shall mourn.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-15-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-2">2</sup>Should a wise man utter vain knowledge,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And fill his belly with the east wind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-3">3</sup>Should he reason with unprofitable talk?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or with speeches wherewith he can do no good?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-4">4</sup>Yea, thou castest off fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And restrainest prayer before God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-5">5</sup>For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou choosest the tongue of the crafty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-6">6</sup>Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, thine own lips testify against thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-7">7</sup>Art thou the first man that was born?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or wast thou made before the hills?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-8">8</sup>Hast thou heard the secret of God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-9">9</sup>What knowest thou, that we know not?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">What understandest thou, which is not in us?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-10">10</sup>With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Much elder than thy father.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-11">11</sup>Are the consolations of God small with thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is there any secret thing with thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-12">12</sup>Why doth thine heart carry thee away?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what do thy eyes wink at,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-13">13</sup>That thou turnest thy spirit against God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And lettest such words go out of thy mouth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-14">14</sup>What is man, that he should be clean?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-15">15</sup>Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-16">16</sup>How much more abominable and filthy is man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which drinketh iniquity like water?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-17">17</sup>I will shew thee, hear me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that which I have seen I will declare;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-18">18</sup>Which wise men have told from their fathers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And have not hid it:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-19">19</sup>Unto whom alone the earth was given,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And no stranger passed among them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-20">20</sup>The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the number of years is hidden to the oppressor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-21">21</sup>A dreadful sound is in his ears:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-22">22</sup>He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he is waited for of the sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-23">23</sup>He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-24">24</sup>Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-25">25</sup>For he stretcheth out his hand against God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And strengtheneth himself against the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-26">26</sup>He runneth upon him, even on his neck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the thick bosses of his bucklers:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-27">27</sup>Because he covereth his face with his fatness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And maketh collops of fat on his flanks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-28">28</sup>And he dwelleth in desolate cities,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in houses which no man inhabiteth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which are ready to become heaps.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-29">29</sup>He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-30">30</sup>He shall not depart out of darkness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The flame shall dry up his branches,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-31">31</sup>Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For vanity shall be his recompence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-32">32</sup>It shall be accomplished before his time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his branch shall not be green.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-33">33</sup>He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall cast off his flower as the olive.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-34">34</sup>For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-15-sup-35">35</sup>They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their belly prepareth deceit.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-16-sup-1">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-2">2</sup>I have heard many such things:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Miserable comforters are ye all.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-3">3</sup>Shall vain words have an end?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-4">4</sup>I also could speak as ye do:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If your soul were in my soul’s stead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could heap up words against you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shake mine head at you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-5">5</sup>But I would strengthen you with my mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the moving of my lips should asswage your grief.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-6">6</sup>Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And though I forbear, what am I eased?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-7">7</sup>But now he hath made me weary:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou hast made desolate all my company.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-8">8</sup>And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-9">9</sup>He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He gnasheth upon me with his teeth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-10">10</sup>They have gaped upon me with their mouth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They have gathered themselves together against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-11">11</sup>God hath delivered me to the ungodly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And turned me over into the hands of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-12">12</sup>I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And set me up for his mark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1"><sup id="chapter-16-sup-13">13</sup>His archers compass me round about,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He poureth out my gall upon the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-14">14</sup>He breaketh me with breach upon breach,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He runneth upon me like a giant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-15">15</sup>I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And defiled my horn in the dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-16">16</sup>My face is foul with weeping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And on my eyelids is the shadow of death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-17">17</sup>Not for any injustice in mine hands:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Also my prayer is pure.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-18">18</sup>O earth, cover not thou my blood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let my cry have no place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-19">19</sup>Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my record is on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-20">20</sup>My friends scorn me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But mine eye poureth out tears unto God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-21">21</sup>O that one might plead for a man with God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As a man pleadeth for his neighbour!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-16-sup-22">22</sup>When a few years are come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then I shall go the way whence I shall not return.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-1">1</sup>My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The graves are ready for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-2">2</sup>Are there not mockers with me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And doth not mine eye continue in their provocation?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-3">3</sup>Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who is he that will strike hands with me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-4">4</sup>For thou hast hid their heart from understanding:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore shalt thou not exalt them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-5">5</sup>He that speaketh flattery to his friends,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even the eyes of his children shall fail.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-6">6</sup>He hath made me also a byword of the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And aforetime I was as a tabret.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-7">7</sup>Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And all my members are as a shadow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-8">8</sup>Upright men shall be astonied at this,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-9">9</sup>The righteous also shall hold on his way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-10">10</sup>But as for you all, do ye return, and come now:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For I cannot find one wise man among you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-11">11</sup>My days are past, my purposes are broken off,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even the thoughts of my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-12">12</sup>They change the night into day:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The light is short because of darkness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-13">13</sup>If I wait, the grave is mine house:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have made my bed in the darkness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-14">14</sup>I have said to corruption, Thou art my father:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-15">15</sup>And where is now my hope?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As for my hope, who shall see it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-17-sup-16">16</sup>They shall go down to the bars of the pit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When our rest together is in the dust.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-18-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-2">2</sup>How long will it be ere ye make an end of words?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Mark, and afterwards we will speak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-3">3</sup>Wherefore are we counted as beasts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And reputed vile in your sight?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-4">4</sup>He teareth himself in his anger:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shall the earth be forsaken for thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall the rock be removed out of his place?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-5">5</sup>Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the spark of his fire shall not shine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-6">6</sup>The light shall be dark in his tabernacle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his candle shall be put out with him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-7">7</sup>The steps of his strength shall be straitened,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his own counsel shall cast him down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-8">8</sup>For he is cast into a net by his own feet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he walketh upon a snare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-9">9</sup>The gin shall take him by the heel,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the robber shall prevail against him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-10">10</sup>The snare is laid for him in the ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a trap for him in the way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-11">11</sup>Terrors shall make him afraid on every side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall drive him to his feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-12">12</sup>His strength shall be hungerbitten,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And destruction shall be ready at his side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-13">13</sup>It shall devour the strength of his skin:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-14">14</sup>His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And it shall bring him to the king of terrors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-15">15</sup>It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-16">16</sup>His roots shall be dried up beneath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And above shall his branch be cut off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-17">17</sup>His remembrance shall perish from the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he shall have no name in the street.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-18">18</sup>He shall be driven from light into darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And chased out of the world.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-19">19</sup>He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor any remaining in his dwellings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-20">20</sup>They that come after him shall be astonied at his day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As they that went before were affrighted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-18-sup-21">21</sup>Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And this is the place of him that knoweth not God.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-19-sup-1">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-2">2</sup>How long will ye vex my soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And break me in pieces with words?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-3">3</sup>These ten times have ye reproached me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-4">4</sup>And be it indeed that I have erred,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Mine error remaineth with myself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-5">5</sup>If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And plead against me my reproach:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-6">6</sup>Know now that God hath overthrown me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hath compassed me with his net.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-7">7</sup>Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I cry aloud, but there is no judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-8">8</sup>He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he hath set darkness in my paths.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-9">9</sup>He hath stripped me of my glory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And taken the crown from my head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-10">10</sup>He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine hope hath he removed like a tree.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-11">11</sup>He hath also kindled his wrath against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he counteth me unto him as one of his enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-12">12</sup>His troops come together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And raise up their way against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And encamp round about my tabernacle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-13">13</sup>He hath put my brethren far from me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-14">14</sup>My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1"><sup id="chapter-19-sup-15">15</sup>They that dwell in mine house,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And my maids, count me for a stranger:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I am an alien in their sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-16">16</sup>I called my servant, and he gave me no answer;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I intreated him with my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-17">17</sup>My breath is strange to my wife,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Though I intreated for the children’s sake of mine own body.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-18">18</sup>Yea, young children despised me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I arose, and they spake against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-19">19</sup>All my inward friends abhorred me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they whom I loved are turned against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-20">20</sup>My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I am escaped with the skin of my teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-21">21</sup>Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For the hand of God hath touched me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-22">22</sup>Why do ye persecute me as God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And are not satisfied with my flesh?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-23">23</sup>Oh that my words were now written!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oh that they were printed in a book!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-24">24</sup>That they were graven with an iron pen and lead</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the rock for ever!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-25">25</sup>For I know that my redeemer liveth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-26">26</sup>And though after my skin worms destroy this body,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet in my flesh shall I see God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-27">27</sup>Whom I shall see for myself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine eyes shall behold, and not another;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Though my reins be consumed within me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-28">28</sup>But ye should say, Why persecute we him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Seeing the root of the matter is found in me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-19-sup-29">29</sup>Be ye afraid of the sword:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That ye may know there is a judgment.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-20-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-2">2</sup>Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And for this I make haste.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-3">3</sup>I have heard the check of my reproach,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-4">4</sup>Knowest thou not this of old,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Since man was placed upon earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-5">5</sup>That the triumphing of the wicked is short,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-6">6</sup>Though his excellency mount up to the heavens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his head reach unto the clouds;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-7">7</sup>Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They which have seen him shall say, Where is he?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-8">8</sup>He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-9">9</sup>The eye also which saw him shall see him no more;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall his place any more behold him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-10">10</sup>His children shall seek to please the poor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his hands shall restore their goods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-11">11</sup>His bones are full of the sin of his youth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which shall lie down with him in the dust.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-12">12</sup>Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Though he hide it under his tongue;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-13">13</sup>Though he spare it, and forsake it not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But keep it still within his mouth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-14">14</sup>Yet his meat in his bowels is turned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It is the gall of asps within him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-15">15</sup>He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">God shall cast them out of his belly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-16">16</sup>He shall suck the poison of asps:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The viper’s tongue shall slay him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-17">17</sup>He shall not see the rivers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The floods, the brooks of honey and butter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-18">18</sup>That which he laboured for shall he restore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall not swallow it down:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>According to his substance shall the restitution be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he shall not rejoice therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-19">19</sup>Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Because he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not;</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-20">20</sup>Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He shall not save of that which he desired.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-21">21</sup>There shall none of his meat be left;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore shall no man look for his goods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-22">22</sup>In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Every hand of the wicked shall come upon him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-23">23</sup>When he is about to fill his belly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">God shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall rain it upon him while he is eating.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-24">24</sup>He shall flee from the iron weapon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the bow of steel shall strike him through.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-25">25</sup>It is drawn, and cometh out of the body;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Terrors are upon him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-26">26</sup>All darkness shall be hid in his secret places:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A fire not blown shall consume him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-27">27</sup>The heaven shall reveal his iniquity;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the earth shall rise up against him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-28">28</sup>The increase of his house shall depart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-20-sup-29">29</sup>This is the portion of a wicked man from God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the heritage appointed unto him by God.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-21-sup-1">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-2">2</sup>Hear diligently my speech,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let this be your consolations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-3">3</sup>Suffer me that I may speak;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And after that I have spoken, mock on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-4">4</sup>As for me, is my complaint to man?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-5">5</sup>Mark me, and be astonished,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And lay your hand upon your mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-6">6</sup>Even when I remember I am afraid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And trembling taketh hold on my flesh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-7">7</sup>Wherefore do the wicked live,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Become old, yea, are mighty in power?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-8">8</sup>Their seed is established in their sight with them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their offspring before their eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-9">9</sup>Their houses are safe from fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither is the rod of God upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-10">10</sup>Their bull gendereth, and faileth not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-11">11</sup>They send forth their little ones like a flock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their children dance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-12">12</sup>They take the timbrel and harp,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And rejoice at the sound of the organ.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-13">13</sup>They spend their days in wealth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in a moment go down to the grave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-14">14</sup>Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For we desire not the knowledge of thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-15">15</sup>What is the Almighty, that we should serve him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what profit should we have, if we pray unto him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-16">16</sup>Lo, their good is not in their hand:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The counsel of the wicked is far from me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-17">17</sup>How oft is the candle of the wicked put out!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And how oft cometh their destruction upon them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">God distributeth sorrows in his anger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-18">18</sup>They are as stubble before the wind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as chaff that the storm carrieth away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-19">19</sup>God layeth up his iniquity for his children:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He rewardeth him, and he shall know it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-20">20</sup>His eyes shall see his destruction,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-21">21</sup>For what pleasure hath he in his house after him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When the number of his months is cut off in the midst?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-22">22</sup>Shall any teach God knowledge?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Seeing he judgeth those that are high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-23">23</sup>One dieth in his full strength,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Being wholly at ease and quiet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-24">24</sup>His breasts are full of milk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his bones are moistened with marrow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-25">25</sup>And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And never eateth with pleasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-26">26</sup>They shall lie down alike in the dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the worms shall cover them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-27">27</sup>Behold, I know your thoughts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the devices which ye wrongfully imagine against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-28">28</sup>For ye say, Where is the house of the prince?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And where are the dwelling places of the wicked?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-29">29</sup>Have ye not asked them that go by the way?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And do ye not know their tokens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-30">30</sup>That the wicked is reserved to the day of destruction?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They shall be brought forth to the day of wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-31">31</sup>Who shall declare his way to his face?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And who shall repay him what he hath done?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-32">32</sup>Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and shall remain in the tomb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-33">33</sup>The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-21-sup-34">34</sup>How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there remaineth falsehood?</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-22-sup-1">1</sup>Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-2">2</sup>Can a man be profitable unto God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As he that is wise may be profitable unto himself?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-3">3</sup>Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-4">4</sup>Will he reprove thee for fear of thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will he enter with thee into judgment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-5">5</sup>Is not thy wickedness great?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thine iniquities infinite?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-6">6</sup>For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for nought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And stripped the naked of their clothing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-7">7</sup>Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou hast withholden bread from the hungry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-8">8</sup>But as for the mighty man, he had the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the honourable man dwelt in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-9">9</sup>Thou hast sent widows away empty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the arms of the fatherless have been broken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-10">10</sup>Therefore snares are round about thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sudden fear troubleth thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-11">11</sup>Or darkness, that thou canst not see;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And abundance of waters cover thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-12">12</sup>Is not God in the height of heaven?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And behold the height of the stars, how high they are!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-13">13</sup>And thou sayest, How doth God know?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Can he judge through the dark cloud?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-14">14</sup>Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he walketh in the circuit of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-15">15</sup>Hast thou marked the old way</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which wicked men have trodden?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-16">16</sup>Which were cut down out of time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whose foundation was overflown with a flood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-17">17</sup>Which said unto God, Depart from us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what can the Almighty do for them?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-18">18</sup>Yet he filled their houses with good things:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the counsel of the wicked is far from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-19">19</sup>The righteous see it, and are glad:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the innocent laugh them to scorn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-20">20</sup>Whereas our substance is not cut down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the remnant of them the fire consumeth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-21">21</sup>Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thereby good shall come unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-22">22</sup>Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And lay up his words in thine heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-23">23</sup>If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-24">24</sup>Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-25">25</sup>Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou shalt have plenty of silver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-26">26</sup>For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shalt lift up thy face unto God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-27">27</sup>Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thou shalt pay thy vows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-28">28</sup>Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the light shall shine upon thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-29">29</sup>When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he shall save the humble person.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-22-sup-30">30</sup>He shall deliver the island of the innocent:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And it is delivered by the pureness of thine hands.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-23-sup-1">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-2">2</sup>Even to day is my complaint bitter:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My stroke is heavier than my groaning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-3">3</sup>Oh that I knew where I might find him!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That I might come even to his seat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-4">4</sup>I would order my cause before him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And fill my mouth with arguments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-5">5</sup>I would know the words which he would answer me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And understand what he would say unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-6">6</sup>Will he plead against me with his great power?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No; but he would put strength in me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-7">7</sup>There the righteous might dispute with him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So should I be delivered for ever from my judge.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-8">8</sup>Behold, I go forward, but he is not there;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And backward, but I cannot perceive him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-9">9</sup>On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-10">10</sup>But he knoweth the way that I take:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-11">11</sup>My foot hath held his steps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His way have I kept, and not declined.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-12">12</sup>Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-13">13</sup>But he is in one mind, and who can turn him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what his soul desireth, even that he doeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-14">14</sup>For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And many such things are with him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-15">15</sup>Therefore am I troubled at his presence:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When I consider, I am afraid of him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-16">16</sup>For God maketh my heart soft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the Almighty troubleth me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-23-sup-17">17</sup>Because I was not cut off before the darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither hath he covered the darkness from my face.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-1">1</sup>Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Do they that know him not see his days?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-2">2</sup>Some remove the landmarks;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They violently take away flocks, and feed thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-3">3</sup>They drive away the ass of the fatherless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They take the widow’s ox for a pledge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-4">4</sup>They turn the needy out of the way:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The poor of the earth hide themselves together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-5">5</sup>Behold, as wild asses in the desert,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-6">6</sup>They reap every one his corn in the field:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they gather the vintage of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-7">7</sup>They cause the naked to lodge without clothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That they have no covering in the cold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-8">8</sup>They are wet with the showers of the mountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And embrace the rock for want of a shelter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-9">9</sup>They pluck the fatherless from the breast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And take a pledge of the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-10">10</sup>They cause him to go naked without clothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they take away the sheaf from the hungry;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-11">11</sup>Which make oil within their walls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-12">12</sup>Men groan from out of the city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the soul of the wounded crieth out:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet God layeth not folly to them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-13">13</sup>They are of those that rebel against the light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They know not the ways thereof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor abide in the paths thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-14">14</sup>The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in the night is as a thief.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-15">15</sup>The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Saying, No eye shall see me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And disguiseth his face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-16">16</sup>In the dark they dig through houses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which they had marked for themselves in the daytime:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They know not the light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-17">17</sup>For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If one know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-18">18</sup>He is swift as the waters;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Their portion is cursed in the earth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-19">19</sup>Drought and heat consume the snow waters:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So doth the grave those which have sinned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-20">20</sup>The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He shall be no more remembered;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wickedness shall be broken as a tree.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-21">21</sup>He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And doeth not good to the widow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-22">22</sup>He draweth also the mighty with his power:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He riseth up, and no man is sure of life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-23">23</sup>Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet his eyes are upon their ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-24">24</sup>They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They are taken out of the way as all other,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And cut off as the tops of the ears of corn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-24-sup-25">25</sup>And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And make my speech nothing worth?</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-25-sup-1">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-25-sup-2">2</sup>Dominion and fear are with him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He maketh peace in his high places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-25-sup-3">3</sup>Is there any number of his armies?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And upon whom doth not his light arise?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-25-sup-4">4</sup>How then can man be justified with God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or how can he be clean that is born of a woman?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-25-sup-5">5</sup>Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, the stars are not pure in his sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-25-sup-6">6</sup>How much less man, that is a worm?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the son of man, which is a worm?</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-26-sup-1">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-2">2</sup>How hast thou helped him that is without power?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How savest thou the arm that hath no strength?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-3">3</sup>How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And how hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-4">4</sup>To whom hast thou uttered words?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And whose spirit came from thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-5">5</sup>Dead things are formed from under the waters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the inhabitants thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-6">6</sup>Hell is naked before him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And destruction hath no covering.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-7">7</sup>He stretcheth out the north over the empty place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hangeth the earth upon nothing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-8">8</sup>He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the cloud is not rent under them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-9">9</sup>He holdeth back the face of his throne,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And spreadeth his cloud upon it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-10">10</sup>He hath compassed the waters with bounds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Until the day and night come to an end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-11">11</sup>The pillars of heaven tremble</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And are astonished at his reproof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-12">12</sup>He divideth the sea with his power,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And by his understanding he smiteth through the proud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-13">13</sup>By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His hand hath formed the crooked serpent.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-26-sup-14">14</sup>Lo, these are parts of his ways:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But how little a portion is heard of him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the thunder of his power who can understand?</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-27-sup-1">1</sup>Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-2">2</sup>As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-3">3</sup>All the while my breath is in me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the spirit of God is in my nostrils;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-4">4</sup>My lips shall not speak wickedness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor my tongue utter deceit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-5">5</sup>God forbid that I should justify you:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-6">6</sup>My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-7">7</sup>Let mine enemy be as the wicked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-8">8</sup>For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When God taketh away his soul?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-9">9</sup>Will God hear his cry</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When trouble cometh upon him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-10">10</sup>Will he delight himself in the Almighty?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will he always call upon God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-11">11</sup>I will teach you by the hand of God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-12">12</sup>Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Why then are ye thus altogether vain?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-13">13</sup>This is the portion of a wicked man with God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-14">14</sup>If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-15">15</sup>Those that remain of him shall be buried in death:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his widows shall not weep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-16">16</sup>Though he heap up silver as the dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And prepare raiment as the clay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-17">17</sup>He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the innocent shall divide the silver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-18">18</sup>He buildeth his house as a moth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as a booth that the keeper maketh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-19">19</sup>The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He openeth his eyes, and he is not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-20">20</sup>Terrors take hold on him as waters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A tempest stealeth him away in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-21">21</sup>The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as a storm hurleth him out of his place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-22">22</sup>For God shall cast upon him, and not spare:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He would fain flee out of his hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-27-sup-23">23</sup>Men shall clap their hands at him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shall hiss him out of his place.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-1">1</sup>Surely there is a vein for the silver,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a place for gold where they fine it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-2">2</sup>Iron is taken out of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And brass is molten out of the stone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-3">3</sup>He setteth an end to darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And searcheth out all perfection:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-4">4</sup>The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even the waters forgotten of the foot:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They are dried up, they are gone away from men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-5">5</sup>As for the earth, out of it cometh bread:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And under it is turned up as it were fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-6">6</sup>The stones of it are the place of sapphires:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And it hath dust of gold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-7">7</sup>There is a path which no fowl knoweth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And which the vulture’s eye hath not seen:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-8">8</sup>The lion’s whelps have not trodden it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor the fierce lion passed by it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-9">9</sup>He putteth forth his hand upon the rock;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He overturneth the mountains by the roots.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-10">10</sup>He cutteth out rivers among the rocks;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his eye seeth every precious thing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-11">11</sup>He bindeth the floods from overflowing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-12">12</sup>But where shall wisdom be found?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And where is the place of understanding?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-13">13</sup>Man knoweth not the price thereof;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither is it found in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-14">14</sup>The depth saith, It is not in me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the sea saith, It is not with me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-15">15</sup>It cannot be gotten for gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-16">16</sup>It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With the precious onyx, or the sapphire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-17">17</sup>The gold and the crystal cannot equal it:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-18">18</sup>No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For the price of wisdom is above rubies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-19">19</sup>The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall it be valued with pure gold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-20">20</sup>Whence then cometh wisdom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And where is the place of understanding?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-21">21</sup>Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And kept close from the fowls of the air.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-22">22</sup>Destruction and death say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">We have heard the fame thereof with our ears.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-23">23</sup>God understandeth the way thereof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he knoweth the place thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-24">24</sup>For he looketh to the ends of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And seeth under the whole heaven;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-25">25</sup>To make the weight for the winds;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he weigheth the waters by measure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-26">26</sup>When he made a decree for the rain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a way for the lightning of the thunder:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-27">27</sup>Then did he see it, and declare it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He prepared it, yea, and searched it out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-28-sup-28">28</sup>And unto man he said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Behold, the fear of the <b>Lord</b>, that is wisdom;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to depart from evil is understanding.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-29-sup-1">1</sup>Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-2">2</sup>Oh that I were as in months past,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As in the days when God preserved me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-3">3</sup>When his candle shined upon my head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when by his light I walked through darkness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-4">4</sup>As I was in the days of my youth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When the secret of God was upon my tabernacle;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-5">5</sup>When the Almighty was yet with me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When my children were about me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-6">6</sup>When I washed my steps with butter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the rock poured me out rivers of oil;</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-7">7</sup>When I went out to the gate through the city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When I prepared my seat in the street!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-8">8</sup>The young men saw me, and hid themselves:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the aged arose, and stood up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-9">9</sup>The princes refrained talking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And laid their hand on their mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-10">10</sup>The nobles held their peace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-11">11</sup>When the ear heard me, then it blessed me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-12">12</sup>Because I delivered the poor that cried,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-13">13</sup>The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-14">14</sup>I put on righteousness, and it clothed me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My judgment was as a robe and a diadem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-15">15</sup>I was eyes to the blind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And feet was I to the lame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-16">16</sup>I was a father to the poor:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the cause which I knew not I searched out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-17">17</sup>And I brake the jaws of the wicked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And plucked the spoil out of his teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-18">18</sup>Then I said, I shall die in my nest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I shall multiply my days as the sand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-19">19</sup>My root was spread out by the waters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the dew lay all night upon my branch.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-20">20</sup>My glory was fresh in me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my bow was renewed in my hand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-21">21</sup>Unto me men gave ear, and waited,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And kept silence at my counsel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-22">22</sup>After my words they spake not again;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my speech dropped upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-23">23</sup>And they waited for me as for the rain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-24">24</sup>If I laughed on them, they believed it not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the light of my countenance they cast not down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-29-sup-25">25</sup>I chose out their way, and sat chief,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And dwelt as a king in the army,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As one that comforteth the mourners.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-1">1</sup>But now they that are younger than I have me in derision,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-2">2</sup>Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In whom old age was perished?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-3">3</sup>For want and famine they were solitary;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-4">4</sup>Who cut up mallows by the bushes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And juniper roots for their meat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-5">5</sup>They were driven forth from among men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">(They cried after them as after a thief;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-6">6</sup>To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In caves of the earth, and in the rocks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-7">7</sup>Among the bushes they brayed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Under the nettles they were gathered together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-8">8</sup>They were children of fools, yea, children of base men:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They were viler than the earth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-9">9</sup>And now am I their song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, I am their byword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-10">10</sup>They abhor me, they flee far from me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And spare not to spit in my face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-11">11</sup>Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They have also let loose the bridle before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-12">12</sup>Upon my right hand rise the youth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They push away my feet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-13">13</sup>They mar my path,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They set forward my calamity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They have no helper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-14">14</sup>They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the desolation they rolled themselves upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-15">15</sup>Terrors are turned upon me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They pursue my soul as the wind:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my welfare passeth away as a cloud.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-16">16</sup>And now my soul is poured out upon me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The days of affliction have taken hold upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-17">17</sup>My bones are pierced in me in the night season:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my sinews take no rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-18">18</sup>By the great force of my disease is my garment changed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It bindeth me about as the collar of my coat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-19">19</sup>He hath cast me into the mire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I am become like dust and ashes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-20">20</sup>I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I stand up, and thou regardest me not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-21">21</sup>Thou art become cruel to me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-22">22</sup>Thou liftest me up to the wind;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou causest me to ride upon it, and dissolvest my substance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-23">23</sup>For I know that thou wilt bring me to death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to the house appointed for all living.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-24">24</sup>Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Though they cry in his destruction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-25">25</sup>Did not I weep for him that was in trouble?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Was not my soul grieved for the poor?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-26">26</sup>When I looked for good, then evil came unto me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when I waited for light, there came darkness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-27">27</sup>My bowels boiled, and rested not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The days of affliction prevented me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-28">28</sup>I went mourning without the sun:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I stood up, and I cried in the congregation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-29">29</sup>I am a brother to dragons,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a companion to owls.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-30">30</sup>My skin is black upon me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my bones are burned with heat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-30-sup-31">31</sup>My harp also is turned to mourning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my organ into the voice of them that weep.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-1">1</sup>I made a covenant with mine eyes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Why then should I think upon a maid?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-2">2</sup>For what portion of God is there from above?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And what inheritance of the Almighty from on high?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-3">3</sup>Is not destruction to the wicked?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-4">4</sup>Doth not he see my ways,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And count all my steps?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-5">5</sup>If I have walked with vanity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or if my foot hath hasted to deceit;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-6">6</sup>Let me be weighed in an even balance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That God may know mine integrity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-7">7</sup>If my step hath turned out of the way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine heart walked after mine eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-8">8</sup>Then let me sow, and let another eat;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, let my offspring be rooted out.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-9">9</sup>If mine heart have been deceived by a woman,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or if I have laid wait at my neighbour’s door;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-10">10</sup>Then let my wife grind unto another,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let others bow down upon her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-11">11</sup>For this is an heinous crime;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, it is an iniquity to be punished by the judges.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-12">12</sup>For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And would root out all mine increase.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-13">13</sup>If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When they contended with me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-14">14</sup>What then shall I do when God riseth up?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-15">15</sup>Did not he that made me in the womb make him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And did not one fashion us in the womb?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-16">16</sup>If I have withheld the poor from their desire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-17">17</sup>Or have eaten my morsel myself alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the fatherless hath not eaten thereof;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-18">18</sup>(For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a father,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I have guided her from my mother’s womb;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-19">19</sup>If I have seen any perish for want of clothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or any poor without covering;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-20">20</sup>If his loins have not blessed me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-21">21</sup>If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When I saw my help in the gate:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-22">22</sup>Then let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And mine arm be broken from the bone.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-23">23</sup>For destruction from God was a terror to me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And by reason of his highness I could not endure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-24">24</sup>If I have made gold my hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-25">25</sup>If I rejoice because my wealth was great,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And because mine hand had gotten much;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-26">26</sup>If I beheld the sun when it shined,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or the moon walking in brightness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-27">27</sup>And my heart hath been secretly enticed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or my mouth hath kissed my hand:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-28">28</sup>This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For I should have denied the God that is above.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-29">29</sup>If I rejoice at the destruction of him that hated me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or lifted up myself when evil found him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-30">30</sup>Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By wishing a curse to his soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-31">31</sup>If the men of my tabernacle said not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-32">32</sup>The stranger did not lodge in the street:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But I opened my doors to the traveller.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-33">33</sup>If I covered my transgressions as Adam,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By hiding mine iniquity in my bosom:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-34">34</sup>Did I fear a great multitude,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or did the contempt of families terrify me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That I kept silence, and went not out of the door?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-35">35</sup>Oh that one would hear me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Behold, my desire is, that the Almighty would answer me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that mine adversary had written a book.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-36">36</sup>Surely I would take it upon my shoulder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bind it as a crown to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-37">37</sup>I would declare unto him the number of my steps;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As a prince would I go near unto him.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-38">38</sup>If my land cry against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or that the furrows likewise thereof complain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-39">39</sup>If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-31-sup-40">40</sup>Let thistles grow instead of wheat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And cockle instead of barley.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>The words of Job are ended.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-32-sup-1">1</sup>So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <sup id="chapter-32-sup-2">2</sup>Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. <sup id="chapter-32-sup-3">3</sup>Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. <sup id="chapter-32-sup-4">4</sup>Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he. <sup id="chapter-32-sup-5">5</sup>When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled.</p>
				<p><sup id="chapter-32-sup-6">6</sup>And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>I am young, and ye are very old;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-7">7</sup>I said, Days should speak,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And multitude of years should teach wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-8">8</sup>But there is a spirit in man:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-9">9</sup>Great men are not always wise:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither do the aged understand judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-10">10</sup>Therefore I said, Hearken to me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I also will shew mine opinion.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-11">11</sup>Behold, I waited for your words;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I gave ear to your reasons,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whilst ye searched out what to say.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-12">12</sup>Yea, I attended unto you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or that answered his words:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-13">13</sup>Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">God thrusteth him down, not man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-14">14</sup>Now he hath not directed his words against me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither will I answer him with your speeches.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-15">15</sup>They were amazed, they answered no more:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They left off speaking.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-16">16</sup>When I had waited, (for they spake not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But stood still, and answered no more;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-17">17</sup>I said, I will answer also my part,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I also will shew mine opinion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-18">18</sup>For I am full of matter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The spirit within me constraineth me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-19">19</sup>Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It is ready to burst like new bottles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-20">20</sup>I will speak, that I may be refreshed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will open my lips and answer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-21">21</sup>Let me not, I pray you, accept any man’s person,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither let me give flattering titles unto man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-32-sup-22">22</sup>For I know not to give flattering titles;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In so doing my maker would soon take me away.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-1">1</sup>Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hearken to all my words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-2">2</sup>Behold, now I have opened my mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My tongue hath spoken in my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-3">3</sup>My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And my lips shall utter knowledge clearly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-4">4</sup>The spirit of God hath made me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the breath of the Almighty hath given me life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-5">5</sup>If thou canst answer me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Set thy words in order before me, stand up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-6">6</sup>Behold, I am according to thy wish in God’s stead:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I also am formed out of the clay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-7">7</sup>Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-8">8</sup>Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I have heard the voice of thy words, saying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-9">9</sup>I am clean without transgression, I am innocent;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither is there iniquity in me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-10">10</sup>Behold, he findeth occasions against me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He counteth me for his enemy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-11">11</sup>He putteth my feet in the stocks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He marketh all my paths.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-12">12</sup>Behold, in this thou art not just:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will answer thee, that God is greater than man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-13">13</sup>Why dost thou strive against him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For he giveth not account of any of his matters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-14">14</sup>For God speaketh once, yea twice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet man perceiveth it not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-15">15</sup>In a dream, in a vision of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When deep sleep falleth upon men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In slumberings upon the bed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-16">16</sup>Then he openeth the ears of men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sealeth their instruction,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-17">17</sup>That he may withdraw man from his purpose,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hide pride from man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-18">18</sup>He keepeth back his soul from the pit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his life from perishing by the sword.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-19">19</sup>He is chastened also with pain upon his bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the multitude of his bones with strong pain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-20">20</sup>So that his life abhorreth bread,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his soul dainty meat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-21">21</sup>His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his bones that were not seen stick out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-22">22</sup>Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his life to the destroyers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-23">23</sup>If there be a messenger with him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">An interpreter, one among a thousand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To shew unto man his uprightness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-24">24</sup>Then he is gracious unto him, and saith,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Deliver him from going down to the pit:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have found a ransom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-25">25</sup>His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He shall return to the days of his youth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-26">26</sup>He shall pray unto God, and he will be favourable unto him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he shall see his face with joy:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For he will render unto man his righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-27">27</sup>He looketh upon men, and if any say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have sinned, and perverted that which was right,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And it profited me not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-28">28</sup>He will deliver his soul from going into the pit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his life shall see the light.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-29">29</sup>Lo, all these things worketh God</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oftentimes with man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-30">30</sup>To bring back his soul from the pit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To be enlightened with the light of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-31">31</sup>Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hold thy peace, and I will speak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-32">32</sup>If thou hast anything to say, answer me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Speak, for I desire to justify thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-33-sup-33">33</sup>If not, hearken unto me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-34-sup-1">1</sup>Furthermore Elihu answered and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-2">2</sup>Hear my words, O ye wise men;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-3">3</sup>For the ear trieth words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As the mouth tasteth meat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-4">4</sup>Let us choose to us judgment:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let us know among ourselves what is good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-5">5</sup>For Job hath said, I am righteous:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And God hath taken away my judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-6">6</sup>Should I lie against my right?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My wound is incurable without transgression.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-7">7</sup>What man is like Job,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who drinketh up scorning like water?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-8">8</sup>Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And walketh with wicked men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-9">9</sup>For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That he should delight himself with God.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-10">10</sup>Therefore hearken unto me ye, men of understanding:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Far be it from God, that he should do wickedness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-11">11</sup>For the work of a man shall he render unto him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And cause every man to find according to his ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-12">12</sup>Yea, surely God will not do wickedly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither will the Almighty pervert judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-13">13</sup>Who hath given him a charge over the earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who hath disposed the whole world?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-14">14</sup>If he set his heart upon man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-15">15</sup>All flesh shall perish together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And man shall turn again unto dust.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-16">16</sup>If now thou hast understanding, hear this:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hearken to the voice of my words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-17">17</sup>Shall even he that hateth right govern?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And wilt thou condemn him that is most just?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-18">18</sup>Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to princes, Ye are ungodly?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-19">19</sup>How much less to him that accepteth not the persons of princes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor regardeth the rich more than the poor?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For they all are the work of his hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-20">20</sup>In a moment shall they die,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the mighty shall be taken away without hand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-21">21</sup>For his eyes are upon the ways of man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he seeth all his goings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-22">22</sup>There is no darkness, nor shadow of death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-23">23</sup>For he will not lay upon man more than right;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That he should enter into judgment with God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-24">24</sup>He shall break in pieces mighty men without number,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And set others in their stead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-25">25</sup>Therefore he knoweth their works,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he overturneth them in the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So that they are destroyed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-26">26</sup>He striketh them as wicked men</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the open sight of others;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-27">27</sup>Because they turned back from him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And would not consider any of his ways:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-28">28</sup>So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he heareth the cry of the afflicted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-29">29</sup>When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And when he hideth his face, who then can behold him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whether it be done against a nation, or against a man only:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-30">30</sup>That the hypocrite reign not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lest the people be ensnared.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-31">31</sup>Surely it is meet to be said unto God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-32">32</sup>That which I see not teach thou me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If I have done iniquity, I will do no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-33">33</sup>Should it be according to thy mind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He will recompense it, whether thou refuse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or whether thou choose; and not I:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore speak what thou knowest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-34">34</sup>Let men of understanding tell me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And let a wise man hearken unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-35">35</sup>Job hath spoken without knowledge,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his words were without wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-36">36</sup>My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Because of his answers for wicked men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-34-sup-37">37</sup>For he addeth rebellion unto his sin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He clappeth his hands among us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And multiplieth his words against God.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-35-sup-1">1</sup>Elihu spake moreover, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-2">2</sup>Thinkest thou this to be right,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God’s?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-3">3</sup>For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-4">4</sup>I will answer thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thy companions with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-5">5</sup>Look unto the heavens, and see;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And behold the clouds which are higher than thou.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-6">6</sup>If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-7">7</sup>If thou be righteous, what givest thou him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or what receiveth he of thine hand?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-8">8</sup>Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thy righteousness may profit the son of man.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-9">9</sup>By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed to cry:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-10">10</sup>But none saith, Where is God my maker,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who giveth songs in the night;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-11">11</sup>Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-12">12</sup>There they cry, but none giveth answer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Because of the pride of evil men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-13">13</sup>Surely God will not hear vanity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither will the Almighty regard it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-14">14</sup>Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet judgment is before him; therefore trust thou in him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-15">15</sup>But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet he knoweth it not in great extremity:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-35-sup-16">16</sup>Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He multiplieth words without knowledge.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-36-sup-1">1</sup>Elihu also proceeded, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-2">2</sup>Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That I have yet to speak on God’s behalf.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-3">3</sup>I will fetch my knowledge from afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-4">4</sup>For truly my words shall not be false:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He that is perfect in knowledge is with thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-5">5</sup>Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He is mighty in strength and wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-6">6</sup>He preserveth not the life of the wicked:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But giveth right to the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-7">7</sup>He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But with kings are they on the throne;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-8">8</sup>And if they be bound in fetters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And be holden in cords of affliction;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-9">9</sup>Then he sheweth them their work,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their transgressions that they have exceeded.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-10">10</sup>He openeth also their ear to discipline,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And commandeth that they return from iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-11">11</sup>If they obey and serve him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They shall spend their days in prosperity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their years in pleasures.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-12">12</sup>But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they shall die without knowledge.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-13">13</sup>But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They cry not when he bindeth them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-14">14</sup>They die in youth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their life is among the unclean.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-15">15</sup>He delivereth the poor in his affliction,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And openeth their ears in oppression.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-16">16</sup>Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into a broad place, where there is no straitness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that which should be set on thy table should be full of fatness.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-17">17</sup>But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Judgment and justice take hold on thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-18">18</sup>Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-19">19</sup>Will he esteem thy riches?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No, not gold, nor all the forces of strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-20">20</sup>Desire not the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When people are cut off in their place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-21">21</sup>Take heed, regard not iniquity:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For this hast thou chosen rather than affliction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-22">22</sup>Behold, God exalteth by his power:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who teacheth like him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-23">23</sup>Who hath enjoined him his way?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-24">24</sup>Remember that thou magnify his work,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which men behold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-25">25</sup>Every man may see it;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Man may behold it afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-26">26</sup>Behold, God is great, and we know him not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither can the number of his years be searched out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-27">27</sup>For he maketh small the drops of water:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They pour down rain according to the vapour thereof:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-28">28</sup>Which the clouds do drop</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And distil upon man abundantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-29">29</sup>Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or the noise of his tabernacle?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-30">30</sup>Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And covereth the bottom of the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-31">31</sup>For by them judgeth he the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He giveth meat in abundance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-32">32</sup>With clouds he covereth the light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And commandeth it not to shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-36-sup-33">33</sup>The noise thereof sheweth concerning it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The cattle also concerning the vapour.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-1">1</sup>At this also my heart trembleth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And is moved out of his place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-2">2</sup>Hear attentively the noise of his voice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the sound that goeth out of his mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-3">3</sup>He directeth it under the whole heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his lightning unto the ends of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-4">4</sup>After it a voice roareth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He thundereth with the voice of his excellency;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he will not stay them when his voice is heard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-5">5</sup>God thundereth marvellously with his voice;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-6">6</sup>For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Likewise to the small rain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to the great rain of his strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-7">7</sup>He sealeth up the hand of every man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That all men may know his work.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-8">8</sup>Then the beasts go into dens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And remain in their places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-9">9</sup>Out of the south cometh the whirlwind:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And cold out of the north.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-10">10</sup>By the breath of God frost is given:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the breadth of the waters is straitened.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-11">11</sup>Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He scattereth his bright cloud:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-12">12</sup>And it is turned round about by his counsels:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That they may do whatsoever he commandeth them</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the face of the world in the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-13">13</sup>He causeth it to come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-14">14</sup>Hearken unto this, O Job:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-15">15</sup>Dost thou know when God disposed them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And caused the light of his cloud to shine?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-16">16</sup>Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-17">17</sup>How thy garments are warm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When he quieteth the earth by the south wind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-18">18</sup>Hast thou with him spread out the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which is strong, and as a molten looking glass?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-19">19</sup>Teach us what we shall say unto him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-20">20</sup>Shall it be told him that I speak?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-21">21</sup>And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-22">22</sup>Fair weather cometh out of the north:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With God is terrible majesty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-23">23</sup>Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He is excellent in power, and in judgment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in plenty of justice: he will not afflict.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-37-sup-24">24</sup>Men do therefore fear him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He respecteth not any that are wise of heart.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-38-sup-1">1</sup>Then the <b>Lord</b> answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-2">2</sup>Who is this that darkeneth counsel</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By words without knowledge?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-3">3</sup>Gird up now thy loins like a man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For I will demand of thee, and answer thou me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-4">4</sup>Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Declare, if thou hast understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-5">5</sup>Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who hath stretched the line upon it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-6">6</sup>Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who laid the corner stone thereof;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-7">7</sup>When the morning stars sang together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And all the sons of God shouted for joy?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-8">8</sup>Or who shut up the sea with doors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-9">9</sup>When I made the cloud the garment thereof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thick darkness a swaddlingband for it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-10">10</sup>And brake up for it my decreed place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And set bars and doors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-11">11</sup>And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And here shall thy proud waves be stayed?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-12">12</sup>Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And caused the dayspring to know his place;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-13">13</sup>That it might take hold of the ends of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That the wicked might be shaken out of it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-14">14</sup>It is turned as clay to the seal;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And they stand as a garment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-15">15</sup>And from the wicked their light is withholden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the high arm shall be broken.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-16">16</sup>Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or hast thou walked in the search of the depth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-17">17</sup>Have the gates of death been opened unto thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-18">18</sup>Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Declare if thou knowest it all.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-19">19</sup>Where is the way where light dwelleth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And as for darkness, where is the place thereof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-20">20</sup>That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that thou shouldest know the paths to the house thereof?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-21">21</sup>Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or because the number of thy days is great?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-22">22</sup>Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-23">23</sup>Which I have reserved against the time of trouble,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Against the day of battle and war?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-24">24</sup>By what way is the light parted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-25">25</sup>Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or a way for the lightning of thunder;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-26">26</sup>To cause it to rain on the earth, where no man is;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On the wilderness, wherein there is no man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-27">27</sup>To satisfy the desolate and waste ground;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-28">28</sup>Hath the rain a father?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who hath begotten the drops of dew?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-29">29</sup>Out of whose womb came the ice?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-30">30</sup>The waters are hid as with a stone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the face of the deep is frozen.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-31">31</sup>Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or loose the bands of Orion?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-32">32</sup>Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-33">33</sup>Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-34">34</sup>Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That abundance of waters may cover thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-35">35</sup>Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And say unto thee, Here we are?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-36">36</sup>Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who hath given understanding to the heart?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-37">37</sup>Who can number the clouds in wisdom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who can stay the bottles of heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-38">38</sup>When the dust groweth into hardness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the clods cleave fast together?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-39">39</sup>Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or fill the appetite of the young lions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-40">40</sup>When they couch in their dens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And abide in the covert to lie in wait?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-38-sup-41">41</sup>Who provideth for the raven his food?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When his young ones cry unto God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They wander for lack of meat.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-1">1</sup>Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-2">2</sup>Canst thou number the months that they fulfil?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or knowest thou the time when they bring forth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-3">3</sup>They bow themselves, they bring forth their young ones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They cast out their sorrows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-4">4</sup>Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They go forth, and return not unto them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-5">5</sup>Who hath sent out the wild ass free?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-6">6</sup>Whose house I have made the wilderness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the barren land his dwellings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-7">7</sup>He scorneth the multitude of the city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither regardeth he the crying of the driver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-8">8</sup>The range of the mountains is his pasture,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he searcheth after every green thing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-9">9</sup>Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or abide by thy crib?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-10">10</sup>Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or will he harrow the valleys after thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-11">11</sup>Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-12">12</sup>Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And gather it into thy barn?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-13">13</sup>Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-14">14</sup>Which leaveth her eggs in the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And warmeth them in dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-15">15</sup>And forgetteth that the foot may crush them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or that the wild beast may break them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-16">16</sup>She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not her’s:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her labour is in vain without fear;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-17">17</sup>Because God hath deprived her of wisdom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither hath he imparted to her understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-18">18</sup>What time she lifteth up herself on high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She scorneth the horse and his rider.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-19">19</sup>Hast thou given the horse strength?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-20">20</sup>Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The glory of his nostrils is terrible.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-21">21</sup>He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He goeth on to meet the armed men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-22">22</sup>He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither turneth he back from the sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-23">23</sup>The quiver rattleth against him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The glittering spear and the shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-24">24</sup>He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-25">25</sup>He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he smelleth the battle afar off,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The thunder of the captains, and the shouting.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-26">26</sup>Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And stretch her wings toward the south?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-27">27</sup>Doth the eagle mount up at thy command,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And make her nest on high?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-28">28</sup>She dwelleth and abideth on the rock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the crag of the rock, and the strong place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-29">29</sup>From thence she seeketh the prey,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And her eyes behold afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-39-sup-30">30</sup>Her young ones also suck up blood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And where the slain are, there is she.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-40-sup-1">1</sup>Moreover the <b>Lord</b> answered Job, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-2">2</sup>Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He that reproveth God, let him answer it.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p><sup id="chapter-40-sup-3">3</sup>Then Job answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-4">4</sup>Behold, I am vile; what shall I answer thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-5">5</sup>Once have I spoken; but I will not answer:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, twice; but I will proceed no further.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p><sup id="chapter-40-sup-6">6</sup>Then answered the <b>Lord</b> unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-7">7</sup>Gird up thy loins now like a man:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-8">8</sup>Wilt thou also disannul my judgment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be righteous?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-9">9</sup>Hast thou an arm like God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-10">10</sup>Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And array thyself with glory and beauty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-11">11</sup>Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And behold every one that is proud, and abase him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-12">12</sup>Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And tread down the wicked in their place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-13">13</sup>Hide them in the dust together;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bind their faces in secret.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-14">14</sup>Then will I also confess unto thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That thine own right hand can save thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-15">15</sup>Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He eateth grass as an ox.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-16">16</sup>Lo now, his strength is in his loins,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his force is in the navel of his belly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-17">17</sup>He moveth his tail like a cedar:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The sinews of his stones are wrapped together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-18">18</sup>His bones are as strong pieces of brass;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His bones are like bars of iron.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-19">19</sup>He is the chief of the ways of God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He that made him can make his sword to approach unto him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-20">20</sup>Surely the mountains bring him forth food,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where all the beasts of the field play.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-21">21</sup>He lieth under the shady trees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the covert of the reed, and fens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-22">22</sup>The shady trees cover him with their shadow;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The willows of the brook compass him about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-23">23</sup>Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-40-sup-24">24</sup>He taketh it with his eyes:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His nose pierceth through snares.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-41" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h4>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-1">1</sup>Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-2">2</sup>Canst thou put an hook into his nose?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or bore his jaw through with a thorn?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-3">3</sup>Will he make many supplications unto thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Will he speak soft words unto thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-4">4</sup>Will he make a covenant with thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Wilt thou take him for a servant for ever?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-5">5</sup>Wilt thou play with him as with a bird?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-6">6</sup>Shall the companions make a banquet of him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shall they part him among the merchants?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-7">7</sup>Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or his head with fish spears?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-8">8</sup>Lay thine hand upon him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Remember the battle, do no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-9">9</sup>Behold, the hope of him is in vain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-10">10</sup>None is so fierce that dare stir him up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who then is able to stand before me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-11">11</sup>Who hath prevented me, that I should repay him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-12">12</sup>I will not conceal his parts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor his power, nor his comely proportion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-13">13</sup>Who can discover the face of his garment?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or who can come to him with his double bridle?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-14">14</sup>Who can open the doors of his face?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His teeth are terrible round about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-15">15</sup>His scales are his pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shut up together as with a close seal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-16">16</sup>One is so near to another,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That no air can come between them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-17">17</sup>They are joined one to another,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They stick together, that they cannot be sundered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-18">18</sup>By his neesings a light doth shine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-19">19</sup>Out of his mouth go burning lamps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sparks of fire leap out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-20">20</sup>Out of his nostrils goeth smoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As out of a seething pot or caldron.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-21">21</sup>His breath kindleth coals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And a flame goeth out of his mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-22">22</sup>In his neck remaineth strength,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sorrow is turned into joy before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-23">23</sup>The flakes of his flesh are joined together:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">They are firm in themselves; they cannot be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-24">24</sup>His heart is as firm as a stone;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea, as hard as a piece of the nether millstone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-25">25</sup>When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By reason of breakings they purify themselves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-26">26</sup>The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The spear, the dart, nor the habergeon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-27">27</sup>He esteemeth iron as straw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And brass as rotten wood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-28">28</sup>The arrow cannot make him flee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Slingstones are turned with him into stubble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-29">29</sup>Darts are counted as stubble:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He laugheth at the shaking of a spear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-30">30</sup>Sharp stones are under him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He spreadeth sharp pointed things upon the mire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-31">31</sup>He maketh the deep to boil like a pot:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He maketh the sea like a pot of ointment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-32">32</sup>He maketh a path to shine after him;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">One would think the deep to be hoary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-33">33</sup>Upon earth there is not his like,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who is made without fear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-41-sup-34">34</sup>He beholdeth all high things:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He is a king over all the children of pride.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h4>
				<p><sup id="chapter-42-sup-1">1</sup>Then Job answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said,</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-2">2</sup>I know that thou canst do every thing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And that no thought can be withholden from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-3">3</sup>Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Therefore have I uttered that I understood not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-4">4</sup>Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-5">5</sup>I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But now mine eye seeth thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup id="chapter-42-sup-6">6</sup>Wherefore I abhor myself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And repent in dust and ashes.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p><sup id="chapter-42-sup-7">7</sup>And it was so, that after the <b>Lord</b> had spoken these words unto Job, the <b>Lord</b> said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-8">8</sup>Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-9">9</sup>So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the <b>Lord</b> commanded them: the <b>Lord</b> also accepted Job. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-10">10</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the <b>Lord</b> gave Job twice as much as he had before. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-11">11</sup>Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the <b>Lord</b> had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-12">12</sup>So the <b>Lord</b> blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-13">13</sup>He had also seven sons and three daughters. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-14">14</sup>And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-15">15</sup>And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-16">16</sup>After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations. <sup id="chapter-42-sup-17">17</sup>So Job died, being old and full of days.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
