<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Psalms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-19" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Fifth Book of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Psalms</p>
				</header>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-107" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107002">2</sup>Let the redeemed of the <b>Lord</b> say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107003">3</sup>And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107004">4</sup>They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107005">5</sup>Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107006">6</sup>Then they cried unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107007">7</sup>And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107008">8</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107009">9</sup>For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107010">10</sup>Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107011">11</sup>Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107012">12</sup>Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107013">13</sup>Then they cried unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107014">14</sup>He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107015">15</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107016">16</sup>For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107017">17</sup>Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107018">18</sup>Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107019">19</sup>Then they cry unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107020">20</sup>He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107021">21</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107022">22</sup>And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107023">23</sup>They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107024">24</sup>These see the works of the <b>Lord</b>, and his wonders in the deep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107025">25</sup>For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107026">26</sup>They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107027">27</sup>They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107028">28</sup>Then they cry unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107029">29</sup>He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107030">30</sup>Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107031">31</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107032">32</sup>Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107033">33</sup>He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107034">34</sup>A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107035">35</sup>He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107036">36</sup>And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107037">37</sup>And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107038">38</sup>He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107039">39</sup>Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107040">40</sup>He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107041">41</sup>Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107042">42</sup>The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107043">43</sup>Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-108" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108001">1</sup>O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108002">2</sup>Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108003">3</sup>I will praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108004">4</sup>For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108005">5</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108006">6</sup>That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108007">7</sup>God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108008">8</sup>Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108009">9</sup>Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108010">10</sup>Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108011">11</sup>Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108012">12</sup>Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108013">13</sup>Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-109" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109001">1</sup>Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109002">2</sup>For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109003">3</sup>They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109004">4</sup>For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109005">5</sup>And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109006">6</sup>Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109007">7</sup>When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109008">8</sup>Let his days be few; and let another take his office.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109009">9</sup>Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109010">10</sup>Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109011">11</sup>Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109012">12</sup>Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109013">13</sup>Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109014">14</sup>Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the <b>Lord</b>; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109015">15</sup>Let them be before the <b>Lord</b> continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109016">16</sup>Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109017">17</sup>As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109018">18</sup>As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109019">19</sup>Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109020">20</sup>Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the <b>Lord</b>, and of them that speak evil against my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109021">21</sup>But do thou for me, O <b>God</b> the Lord, for thy name’s sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109022">22</sup>For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109023">23</sup>I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109024">24</sup>My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109025">25</sup>I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109026">26</sup>Help me, O <b>Lord</b> my God: O save me according to thy mercy:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109027">27</sup>That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast done it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109028">28</sup>Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109029">29</sup>Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109030">30</sup>I will greatly praise the <b>Lord</b> with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109031">31</sup>For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-110" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110003">3</sup>Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110005">5</sup>The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110006">6</sup>He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110007">7</sup>He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-111" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. I will praise the <b>Lord</b> with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111002">2</sup>The works of the <b>Lord</b> are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111003">3</sup>His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111004">4</sup>He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the <b>Lord</b> is gracious and full of compassion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111005">5</sup>He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111006">6</sup>He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111007">7</sup>The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111008">8</sup>They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111009">9</sup>He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111010">10</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-112" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Blessed is the man that feareth the <b>Lord</b>, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112002">2</sup>His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112003">3</sup>Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112004">4</sup>Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112005">5</sup>A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112006">6</sup>Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112007">7</sup>He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112008">8</sup>His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112009">9</sup>He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112010">10</sup>The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-113" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise, O ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>, praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113002">2</sup>Blessed be the name of the <b>Lord</b> from this time forth and for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113003">3</sup>From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the <b>Lord</b>’s name is to be praised.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113005">5</sup>Who is like unto the <b>Lord</b> our God, who dwelleth on high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113006">6</sup>Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113007">7</sup>He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113008">8</sup>That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113009">9</sup>He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-114" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114001">1</sup>When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114002">2</sup>Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114003">3</sup>The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114004">4</sup>The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114005">5</sup>What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114006">6</sup>Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114007">7</sup>Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114008">8</sup>Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-115" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115001">1</sup>Not unto us, O <b>Lord</b>, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth’s sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115002">2</sup>Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115003">3</sup>But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115004">4</sup>Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115005">5</sup>They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115006">6</sup>They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115007">7</sup>They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115008">8</sup>They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115009">9</sup>O Israel, trust thou in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115010">10</sup>O house of Aaron, trust in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115011">11</sup>Ye that fear the <b>Lord</b>, trust in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115012">12</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115013">13</sup>He will bless them that fear the <b>Lord</b>, both small and great.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall increase you more and more, you and your children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115015">15</sup>Ye are blessed of the <b>Lord</b> which made heaven and earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115016">16</sup>The heaven, even the heavens, are the <b>Lord</b>’s: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115017">17</sup>The dead praise not the <b>Lord</b>, neither any that go down into silence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115018">18</sup>But we will bless the <b>Lord</b> from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-116" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116001">1</sup>I love the <b>Lord</b>, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116002">2</sup>Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116003">3</sup>The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116004">4</sup>Then called I upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>; O <b>Lord</b>, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116005">5</sup>Gracious is the <b>Lord</b>, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116007">7</sup>Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the <b>Lord</b> hath dealt bountifully with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116008">8</sup>For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116009">9</sup>I will walk before the <b>Lord</b> in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116010">10</sup>I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116011">11</sup>I said in my haste, All men are liars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116012">12</sup>What shall I render unto the <b>Lord</b> for all his benefits toward me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116013">13</sup>I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116014">14</sup>I will pay my vows unto the <b>Lord</b> now in the presence of all his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116015">15</sup>Precious in the sight of the <b>Lord</b> is the death of his saints.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116016">16</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116017">17</sup>I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116018">18</sup>I will pay my vows unto the <b>Lord</b> now in the presence of all his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116019">19</sup>In the courts of the <b>Lord</b>’s house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-117" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-117001">1</sup>O praise the <b>Lord</b>, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-117002">2</sup>For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the <b>Lord</b> endureth for ever. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-118" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118002">2</sup>Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118003">3</sup>Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118004">4</sup>Let them now that fear the <b>Lord</b> say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118005">5</sup>I called upon the <b>Lord</b> in distress: the <b>Lord</b> answered me, and set me in a large place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118008">8</sup>It is better to trust in the <b>Lord</b> than to put confidence in man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118009">9</sup>It is better to trust in the <b>Lord</b> than to put confidence in princes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118010">10</sup>All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the <b>Lord</b> will I destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118011">11</sup>They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the <b>Lord</b> I will destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118012">12</sup>They compassed me about like bees: they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the <b>Lord</b> I will destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118013">13</sup>Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the <b>Lord</b> helped me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118015">15</sup>The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the <b>Lord</b> doeth valiantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118016">16</sup>The right hand of the <b>Lord</b> is exalted: the right hand of the <b>Lord</b> doeth valiantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118017">17</sup>I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118019">19</sup>Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the <b>Lord</b>:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118020">20</sup>This gate of the <b>Lord</b>, into which the righteous shall enter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118021">21</sup>I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118022">22</sup>The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118023">23</sup>This is the <b>Lord</b>’s doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118024">24</sup>This is the day which the <b>Lord</b> hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118025">25</sup>Save now, I beseech thee, O <b>Lord</b>: O <b>Lord</b>, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118026">26</sup>Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the <b>Lord</b>: we have blessed you out of the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118027">27</sup>God is the <b>Lord</b>, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118028">28</sup>Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118029">29</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-119" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119001">1</sup>Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119002">2</sup>Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119003">3</sup>They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119004">4</sup>Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119005">5</sup>O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119006">6</sup>Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119007">7</sup>I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119008">8</sup>I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119009">9</sup>Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119010">10</sup>With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119011">11</sup>Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119012">12</sup>Blessed art thou, O <b>Lord</b>: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119013">13</sup>With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119014">14</sup>I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119015">15</sup>I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119016">16</sup>I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119017">17</sup>Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119018">18</sup>Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119019">19</sup>I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119020">20</sup>My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119021">21</sup>Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119022">22</sup>Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119023">23</sup>Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119024">24</sup>Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119025">25</sup>My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119026">26</sup>I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119027">27</sup>Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119028">28</sup>My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119029">29</sup>Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119030">30</sup>I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119031">31</sup>I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O <b>Lord</b>, put me not to shame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119032">32</sup>I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119033">33</sup>Teach me, O <b>Lord</b>, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119034">34</sup>Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119035">35</sup>Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119036">36</sup>Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119037">37</sup>Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119038">38</sup>Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119039">39</sup>Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119040">40</sup>Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119041">41</sup>Let thy mercies come also unto me, O <b>Lord</b>, even thy salvation, according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119042">42</sup>So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119043">43</sup>And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119044">44</sup>So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119045">45</sup>And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119046">46</sup>I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119047">47</sup>And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119048">48</sup>My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119049">49</sup>Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119050">50</sup>This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119051">51</sup>The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119052">52</sup>I remembered thy judgments of old, O <b>Lord</b>; and have comforted myself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119053">53</sup>Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119054">54</sup>Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119055">55</sup>I have remembered thy name, O <b>Lord</b>, in the night, and have kept thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119056">56</sup>This I had, because I kept thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119057">57</sup>Thou art my portion, O <b>Lord</b>: I have said that I would keep thy words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119058">58</sup>I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119059">59</sup>I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119060">60</sup>I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119061">61</sup>The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119062">62</sup>At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119063">63</sup>I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119064">64</sup>The earth, O <b>Lord</b>, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119065">65</sup>Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O <b>Lord</b>, according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119066">66</sup>Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119067">67</sup>Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119068">68</sup>Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119069">69</sup>The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119070">70</sup>Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119071">71</sup>It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119072">72</sup>The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119073">73</sup>Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119074">74</sup>They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119075">75</sup>I know, O <b>Lord</b>, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119076">76</sup>Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119077">77</sup>Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119078">78</sup>Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119079">79</sup>Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119080">80</sup>Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119081">81</sup>My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119082">82</sup>Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119083">83</sup>For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119084">84</sup>How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119085">85</sup>The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119086">86</sup>All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119087">87</sup>They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119088">88</sup>Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119089">89</sup>For ever, O <b>Lord</b>, thy word is settled in heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119090">90</sup>Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119091">91</sup>They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119092">92</sup>Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119093">93</sup>I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119094">94</sup>I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119095">95</sup>The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119096">96</sup>I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceeding broad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119097">97</sup>O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119098">98</sup>Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119099">99</sup>I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119100">100</sup>I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119101">101</sup>I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119102">102</sup>I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119103">103</sup>How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119104">104</sup>Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119105">105</sup>Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119106">106</sup>I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119107">107</sup>I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119108">108</sup>Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O <b>Lord</b>, and teach me thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119109">109</sup>My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119110">110</sup>The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119111">111</sup>Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119112">112</sup>I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119113">113</sup>I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119114">114</sup>Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119115">115</sup>Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119116">116</sup>Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119117">117</sup>Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119118">118</sup>Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119119">119</sup>Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119120">120</sup>My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119121">121</sup>I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119122">122</sup>Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119123">123</sup>Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119124">124</sup>Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119125">125</sup>I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119126">126</sup>It is time for thee, <b>Lord</b>, to work: for they have made void thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119127">127</sup>Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119128">128</sup>Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119129">129</sup>Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119130">130</sup>The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119131">131</sup>I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119132">132</sup>Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119133">133</sup>Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119134">134</sup>Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119135">135</sup>Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119136">136</sup>Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119137">137</sup>Righteous art thou, O <b>Lord</b>, and upright are thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119138">138</sup>Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119139">139</sup>My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119140">140</sup>Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119141">141</sup>I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119142">142</sup>Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119143">143</sup>Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119144">144</sup>The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119145">145</sup>I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O <b>Lord</b>: I will keep thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119146">146</sup>I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119147">147</sup>I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119148">148</sup>Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119149">149</sup>Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O <b>Lord</b>, quicken me according to thy judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119150">150</sup>They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119151">151</sup>Thou art near, O <b>Lord</b>; and all thy commandments are truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119152">152</sup>Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119153">153</sup>Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119154">154</sup>Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119155">155</sup>Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119156">156</sup>Great are thy tender mercies, O <b>Lord</b>: quicken me according to thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119157">157</sup>Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119158">158</sup>I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119159">159</sup>Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, according to thy lovingkindness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119160">160</sup>Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119161">161</sup>Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119162">162</sup>I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119163">163</sup>I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119164">164</sup>Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119165">165</sup>Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119166">166</sup><b>Lord</b>, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119167">167</sup>My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119168">168</sup>I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119169">169</sup>Let my cry come near before thee, O <b>Lord</b>: give me understanding according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119170">170</sup>Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119171">171</sup>My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119172">172</sup>My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119173">173</sup>Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119174">174</sup>I have longed for thy salvation, O <b>Lord</b>; and thy law is my delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119175">175</sup>Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119176">176</sup>I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-120" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120001">1</sup>In my distress I cried unto the <b>Lord</b>, and he heard me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120002">2</sup>Deliver my soul, O <b>Lord</b>, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120003">3</sup>What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120004">4</sup>Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120005">5</sup>Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120006">6</sup>My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120007">7</sup>I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-121" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121001">1</sup>I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121002">2</sup>My help cometh from the <b>Lord</b>, which made heaven and earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121003">3</sup>He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121004">4</sup>Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is thy keeper: the <b>Lord</b> is thy shade upon thy right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121006">6</sup>The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-122" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122001">1</sup>I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122002">2</sup>Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122003">3</sup>Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122004">4</sup>Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the <b>Lord</b>, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122005">5</sup>For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122006">6</sup>Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122007">7</sup>Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122008">8</sup>For my brethren and companions’ sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122009">9</sup>Because of the house of the <b>Lord</b> our God I will seek thy good.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-123" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123001">1</sup>Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123002">2</sup>Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the <b>Lord</b> our God, until that he have mercy upon us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123003">3</sup>Have mercy upon us, O <b>Lord</b>, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123004">4</sup>Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-124" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124001">1</sup>If it had not been the <b>Lord</b> who was on our side, now may Israel say;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124002">2</sup>If it had not been the <b>Lord</b> who was on our side, when men rose up against us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124003">3</sup>Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124004">4</sup>Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124005">5</sup>Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124006">6</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b>, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124007">7</sup>Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124008">8</sup>Our help is in the name of the <b>Lord</b>, who made heaven and earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-125" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125001">1</sup>They that trust in the <b>Lord</b> shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125002">2</sup>As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the <b>Lord</b> is round about his people from henceforth even for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125003">3</sup>For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125004">4</sup>Do good, O <b>Lord</b>, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125005">5</sup>As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the <b>Lord</b> shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-126" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126001">1</sup>When the <b>Lord</b> turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126002">2</sup>Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The <b>Lord</b> hath done great things for them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126004">4</sup>Turn again our captivity, O <b>Lord</b>, as the streams in the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126005">5</sup>They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126006">6</sup>He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-127" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127001">1</sup>Except the <b>Lord</b> build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the <b>Lord</b> keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127002">2</sup>It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127003">3</sup>Lo, children are an heritage of the <b>Lord</b>: and the fruit of the womb is his reward.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127004">4</sup>As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127005">5</sup>Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-128" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128001">1</sup>Blessed is every one that feareth the <b>Lord</b>; that walketh in his ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128002">2</sup>For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128003">3</sup>Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128004">4</sup>Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128006">6</sup>Yea, thou shalt see thy children’s children, and peace upon Israel.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-129" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129001">1</sup>Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129002">2</sup>Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129003">3</sup>The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129005">5</sup>Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129006">6</sup>Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129007">7</sup>Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129008">8</sup>Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the <b>Lord</b> be upon you: we bless you in the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-130" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130001">1</sup>Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130002">2</sup>Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130003">3</sup>If thou, <b>Lord</b>, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130004">4</sup>But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130005">5</sup>I wait for the <b>Lord</b>, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130006">6</sup>My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130007">7</sup>Let Israel hope in the <b>Lord</b>: for with the <b>Lord</b> there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130008">8</sup>And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-131" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131001">1</sup>Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131002">2</sup>Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131003">3</sup>Let Israel hope in the <b>Lord</b> from henceforth and for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-132" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132001">1</sup>Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132002">2</sup>How he sware unto the <b>Lord</b>, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132003">3</sup>Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132004">4</sup>I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132005">5</sup>Until I find out a place for the <b>Lord</b>, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132006">6</sup>Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132007">7</sup>We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132008">8</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132009">9</sup>Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132010">10</sup>For thy servant David’s sake turn not away the face of thine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132012">12</sup>If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132013">13</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132014">14</sup>This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132015">15</sup>I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132016">16</sup>I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132017">17</sup>There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132018">18</sup>His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-133" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133001">1</sup>Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133002">2</sup>It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133003">3</sup>As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the <b>Lord</b> commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-134" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134001">1</sup>Behold, bless ye the <b>Lord</b>, all ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>, which by night stand in the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134002">2</sup>Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-135" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the name of the <b>Lord</b>; praise him, O ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135002">2</sup>Ye that stand in the house of the <b>Lord</b>, in the courts of the house of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135003">3</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b>; for the <b>Lord</b> is good: sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135005">5</sup>For I know that the <b>Lord</b> is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135006">6</sup>Whatsoever the <b>Lord</b> pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135007">7</sup>He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135008">8</sup>Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135009">9</sup>Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135010">10</sup>Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135011">11</sup>Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135012">12</sup>And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135013">13</sup>Thy name, O <b>Lord</b>, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O <b>Lord</b>, throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135014">14</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135015">15</sup>The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135016">16</sup>They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135017">17</sup>They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135018">18</sup>They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that trusteth in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135019">19</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Israel: bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Aaron:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135020">20</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Levi: ye that fear the <b>Lord</b>, bless the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135021">21</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-136" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136002">2</sup>O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136003">3</sup>O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136004">4</sup>To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136005">5</sup>To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136006">6</sup>To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136007">7</sup>To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136008">8</sup>The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136009">9</sup>The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136010">10</sup>To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136011">11</sup>And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136012">12</sup>With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136013">13</sup>To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136014">14</sup>And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136015">15</sup>But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136016">16</sup>To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136017">17</sup>To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136018">18</sup>And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136019">19</sup>Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136020">20</sup>And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136021">21</sup>And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136022">22</sup>Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136023">23</sup>Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136024">24</sup>And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136025">25</sup>Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136026">26</sup>O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-137" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137001">1</sup>By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137002">2</sup>We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137003">3</sup>For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137004">4</sup>How shall we sing the <b>Lord</b>’s song in a strange land?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137005">5</sup>If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137006">6</sup>If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137007">7</sup>Remember, O <b>Lord</b>, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137008">8</sup>O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137009">9</sup>Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-138" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138001">1</sup>I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138002">2</sup>I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138003">3</sup>In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138004">4</sup>All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>, when they hear the words of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138005">5</sup>Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the <b>Lord</b>: for great is the glory of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138006">6</sup>Though the <b>Lord</b> be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138007">7</sup>Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-139" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139001">1</sup>O lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139002">2</sup>Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139003">3</sup>Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139004">4</sup>For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O <b>Lord</b>, thou knowest it altogether.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139005">5</sup>Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139006">6</sup>Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139007">7</sup>Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139008">8</sup>If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139009">9</sup>If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139010">10</sup>Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139011">11</sup>If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139012">12</sup>Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139013">13</sup>For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother’s womb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139014">14</sup>I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139015">15</sup>My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139016">16</sup>Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139017">17</sup>How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139018">18</sup>If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139019">19</sup>Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139020">20</sup>For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139021">21</sup>Do not I hate them, O <b>Lord</b>, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139022">22</sup>I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139023">23</sup>Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139024">24</sup>And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-140" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXL</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140001">1</sup>Deliver me, O <b>Lord</b>, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140002">2</sup>Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140003">3</sup>They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140004">4</sup>Keep me, O <b>Lord</b>, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140005">5</sup>The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140006">6</sup>I said unto the <b>Lord</b>, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140007">7</sup>O <b>God</b> the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140008">8</sup>Grant not, O <b>Lord</b>, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140009">9</sup>As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140010">10</sup>Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140011">11</sup>Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140012">12</sup>I know that the <b>Lord</b> will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140013">13</sup>Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-141" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141001">1</sup>Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141002">2</sup>Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141003">3</sup>Set a watch, O <b>Lord</b>, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141004">4</sup>Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141005">5</sup>Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141006">6</sup>When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141007">7</sup>Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141008">8</sup>But mine eyes are unto thee, O <b>God</b> the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141009">9</sup>Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141010">10</sup>Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-142" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142001">1</sup>I cried unto the <b>Lord</b> with my voice; with my voice unto the <b>Lord</b> did I make my supplication.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142002">2</sup>I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142003">3</sup>When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142004">4</sup>I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142005">5</sup>I cried unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142006">6</sup>Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142007">7</sup>Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-143" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143001">1</sup>Hear my prayer, O <b>Lord</b>, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143002">2</sup>And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143003">3</sup>For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143004">4</sup>Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143005">5</sup>I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143006">6</sup>I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after thee, as a thirsty land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="selah">Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143007">7</sup>Hear me speedily, O <b>Lord</b>: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143008">8</sup>Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143009">9</sup>Deliver me, O <b>Lord</b>, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143010">10</sup>Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143011">11</sup>Quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, for thy name’s sake: for thy righteousness’ sake bring my soul out of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143012">12</sup>And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-144" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144001">1</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> my strength which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144002">2</sup>My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144003">3</sup><b>Lord</b>, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son of man, that thou makest account of him!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144004">4</sup>Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144005">5</sup>Bow thy heavens, O <b>Lord</b>, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144006">6</sup>Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144007">7</sup>Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144008">8</sup>Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144009">9</sup>I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144010">10</sup>It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144011">11</sup>Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144012">12</sup>That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144013">13</sup>That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144014">14</sup>That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144015">15</sup>Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people, whose God is the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-145" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145001">1</sup>I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145002">2</sup>Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145003">3</sup>Great is the <b>Lord</b>, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145004">4</sup>One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145005">5</sup>I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145006">6</sup>And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145007">7</sup>They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145010">10</sup>All thy works shall praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>; and thy saints shall bless thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145011">11</sup>They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145012">12</sup>To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145013">13</sup>Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145015">15</sup>The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145016">16</sup>Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145017">17</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145019">19</sup>He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145020">20</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145021">21</sup>My mouth shall speak the praise of the <b>Lord</b>: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-146" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146002">2</sup>While I live will I praise the <b>Lord</b>: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146003">3</sup>Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146004">4</sup>His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146005">5</sup>Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the <b>Lord</b> his God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146006">6</sup>Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146007">7</sup>Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The <b>Lord</b> looseth the prisoners:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> openeth the eyes of the blind: the <b>Lord</b> raiseth them that are bowed down: the <b>Lord</b> loveth the righteous:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146010">10</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-147" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147003">3</sup>He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147004">4</sup>He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147005">5</sup>Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147007">7</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147008">8</sup>Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147009">9</sup>He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147010">10</sup>He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147012">12</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b>, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147013">13</sup>For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147014">14</sup>He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147015">15</sup>He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147016">16</sup>He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147017">17</sup>He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147018">18</sup>He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147019">19</sup>He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147020">20</sup>He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-148" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b> from the heavens: praise him in the heights.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148002">2</sup>Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148003">3</sup>Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148004">4</sup>Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148005">5</sup>Let them praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>: for he commanded, and they were created.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148006">6</sup>He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148007">7</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b> from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148008">8</sup>Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148009">9</sup>Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148010">10</sup>Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148011">11</sup>Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148012">12</sup>Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148013">13</sup>Let them praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148014">14</sup>He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-149" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149002">2</sup>Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149003">3</sup>Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149005">5</sup>Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149006">6</sup>Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149007">7</sup>To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149008">8</sup>To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149009">9</sup>To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-150" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CL</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150002">2</sup>Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150003">3</sup>Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150004">4</sup>Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150005">5</sup>Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150006">6</sup>Let every thing that hath breath praise the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
