<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Psalms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-19" epub:type="volume">
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-1" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">1</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>But his delight is in the law of the <b>Lord</b>; and in his law doth he meditate day and night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-2" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">2</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the <b>Lord</b>, and against his anointed, saying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the <b>Lord</b> shall have them in derision.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>I will declare the decree: the <b>Lord</b> hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>Serve the <b>Lord</b> with fear, and rejoice with trembling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-3" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">3</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of mine head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>I cried unto the <b>Lord</b> with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the <b>Lord</b> sustained me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>Salvation belongeth unto the <b>Lord</b>: thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-4" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">4</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004001">1</sup>Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004002">2</sup>O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004003">3</sup>But know that the <b>Lord</b> hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the <b>Lord</b> will hear when I call unto him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004004">4</sup>Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004005">5</sup>Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004006">6</sup>There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? <b>Lord</b>, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004007">7</sup>Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004008">8</sup>I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, <b>Lord</b>, only makest me dwell in safety.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-5" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">5</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005001">1</sup>Give ear to my words, O <b>Lord</b>, consider my meditation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005002">2</sup>Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005003">3</sup>My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O <b>Lord</b>; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005004">4</sup>For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005005">5</sup>The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005006">6</sup>Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the <b>Lord</b> will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005007">7</sup>But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005008">8</sup>Lead me, O <b>Lord</b>, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005009">9</sup>For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005010">10</sup>Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005011">11</sup>But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005012">12</sup>For thou, <b>Lord</b>, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-6" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">6</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006001">1</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006002">2</sup>Have mercy upon me, O <b>Lord</b>; for I am weak: O <b>Lord</b>, heal me; for my bones are vexed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006003">3</sup>My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O <b>Lord</b>, how long?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006004">4</sup>Return, O <b>Lord</b>, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies’ sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006005">5</sup>For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who shall give thee thanks?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006006">6</sup>I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006007">7</sup>Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of all mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006008">8</sup>Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the <b>Lord</b> hath heard the voice of my weeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath heard my supplication; the <b>Lord</b> will receive my prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006010">10</sup>Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return and be ashamed suddenly.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-7" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">7</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007001">1</sup>O <b>Lord</b> my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007002">2</sup>Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007003">3</sup>O <b>Lord</b> my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007004">4</sup>If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007005">5</sup>Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007006">6</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007007">7</sup>So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall judge the people: judge me, O <b>Lord</b>, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007009">9</sup>Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007010">10</sup>My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007011">11</sup>God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007012">12</sup>If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007013">13</sup>He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007014">14</sup>Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007015">15</sup>He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007016">16</sup>His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007017">17</sup>I will praise the <b>Lord</b> according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the <b>Lord</b> most high.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-8" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">8</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008001">1</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008002">2</sup>Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008003">3</sup>When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008004">4</sup>What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008005">5</sup>For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008006">6</sup>Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008007">7</sup>All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008008">8</sup>The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008009">9</sup>O <b>Lord</b> our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-9" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">9</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009001">1</sup>I will praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009002">2</sup>I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009003">3</sup>When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009004">4</sup>For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009005">5</sup>Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009006">6</sup>O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009007">7</sup>But the <b>Lord</b> shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009008">8</sup>And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009010">10</sup>And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009011">11</sup>Sing praises to the <b>Lord</b>, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009012">12</sup>When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009013">13</sup>Have mercy upon me, O <b>Lord</b>; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009014">14</sup>That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009015">15</sup>The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009016">16</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009017">17</sup>The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009018">18</sup>For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009019">19</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009020">20</sup>Put them in fear, O <b>Lord</b>: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-10" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">10</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010001">1</sup>Why standest thou afar off, O <b>Lord</b>? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010002">2</sup>The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010003">3</sup>For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the <b>Lord</b> abhorreth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010004">4</sup>The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010005">5</sup>His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010006">6</sup>He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010007">7</sup>His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010008">8</sup>He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010009">9</sup>He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010010">10</sup>He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010011">11</sup>He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010012">12</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010013">13</sup>Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010014">14</sup>Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010015">15</sup>Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till thou find none.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010016">16</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010017">17</sup><b>Lord</b>, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010018">18</sup>To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-11" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">11</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011001">1</sup>In the <b>Lord</b> put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011002">2</sup>For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011003">3</sup>If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is in his holy temple, the <b>Lord</b>’s throne is in heaven: his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth violence his soul hateth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011006">6</sup>Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011007">7</sup>For the righteous <b>Lord</b> loveth righteousness; his countenance doth behold the upright.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-12" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">12</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012001">1</sup>Help, <b>Lord</b>; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from among the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012002">2</sup>They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012004">4</sup>Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our own: who is lord over us?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012005">5</sup>For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the <b>Lord</b>; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012006">6</sup>The words of the <b>Lord</b> are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012007">7</sup>Thou shalt keep them, O <b>Lord</b>, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012008">8</sup>The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-13" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">13</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013001">1</sup>How long wilt thou forget me, O <b>Lord</b>? for ever? how long wilt thou hide thy face from me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013002">2</sup>How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013003">3</sup>Consider and hear me, O <b>Lord</b> my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013004">4</sup>Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013005">5</sup>But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013006">6</sup>I will sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, because he hath dealt bountifully with me.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-14" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">14</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014001">1</sup>The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014003">3</sup>They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy: there is none that doeth good, no, not one.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014004">4</sup>Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014005">5</sup>There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of the righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014006">6</sup>Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the <b>Lord</b> is his refuge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014007">7</sup>Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the <b>Lord</b> bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-15" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">15</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015001">1</sup>Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy holy hill?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015002">2</sup>He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015003">3</sup>He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015004">4</sup>In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them that fear the <b>Lord</b>. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015005">5</sup>He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-16" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">16</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016001">1</sup>Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016002">2</sup>O my soul, thou hast said unto the <b>Lord</b>, Thou art my Lord: my goodness extendeth not to thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016003">3</sup>But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in whom is all my delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016004">4</sup>Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god: their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016006">6</sup>The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016007">7</sup>I will bless the <b>Lord</b>, who hath given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night seasons.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016008">8</sup>I have set the <b>Lord</b> always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016009">9</sup>Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also shall rest in hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016010">10</sup>For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016011">11</sup>Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-17" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">17</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017001">1</sup>Hear the right, O <b>Lord</b>, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017002">2</sup>Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017003">3</sup>Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night; thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017004">4</sup>Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017005">5</sup>Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017006">6</sup>I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017007">7</sup>Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up against them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017008">8</sup>Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017009">9</sup>From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017010">10</sup>They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017011">11</sup>They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017012">12</sup>Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017013">13</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, which is thy sword:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017014">14</sup>From men which are thy hand, O <b>Lord</b>, from men of the world, which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their substance to their babes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017015">15</sup>As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-18" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">18</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018001">1</sup>I will love thee, O <b>Lord</b>, my strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018003">3</sup>I will call upon the <b>Lord</b>, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018004">4</sup>The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018005">5</sup>The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018006">6</sup>In my distress I called upon the <b>Lord</b>, and cried unto my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018007">7</sup>Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018008">8</sup>There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018009">9</sup>He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under his feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018010">10</sup>And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018011">11</sup>He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018012">12</sup>At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed, hail stones and coals of fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018013">13</sup>The <b>Lord</b> also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail stones and coals of fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018014">14</sup>Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018015">15</sup>Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O <b>Lord</b>, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018016">16</sup>He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018017">17</sup>He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018018">18</sup>They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the <b>Lord</b> was my stay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018019">19</sup>He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018020">20</sup>The <b>Lord</b> rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018021">21</sup>For I have kept the ways of the <b>Lord</b>, and have not wickedly departed from my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018022">22</sup>For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018023">23</sup>I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018024">24</sup>Therefore hath the <b>Lord</b> recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018025">25</sup>With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018026">26</sup>With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself froward.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018027">27</sup>For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down high looks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018028">28</sup>For thou wilt light my candle: the <b>Lord</b> my God will enlighten my darkness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018029">29</sup>For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018030">30</sup>As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the <b>Lord</b> is tried: he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018031">31</sup>For who is God save the <b>Lord</b>? or who is a rock save our God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018032">32</sup>It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018033">33</sup>He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet, and setteth me upon my high places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018034">34</sup>He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018035">35</sup>Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018036">36</sup>Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018037">37</sup>I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018038">38</sup>I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018039">39</sup>For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018040">40</sup>Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018041">41</sup>They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the <b>Lord</b>, but he answered them not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018042">42</sup>Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018043">43</sup>Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not known shall serve me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018044">44</sup>As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018045">45</sup>The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018046">46</sup>The <b>Lord</b> liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018047">47</sup>It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018048">48</sup>He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018049">49</sup>Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018050">50</sup>Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-19" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">19</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019001">1</sup>The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019002">2</sup>Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019003">3</sup>There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019004">4</sup>Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019005">5</sup>Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019006">6</sup>His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019007">7</sup>The law of the <b>Lord</b> is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the <b>Lord</b> is sure, making wise the simple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019008">8</sup>The statutes of the <b>Lord</b> are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the <b>Lord</b> is pure, enlightening the eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019009">9</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the <b>Lord</b> are true and righteous altogether.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019010">10</sup>More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019011">11</sup>Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019012">12</sup>Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019013">13</sup>Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019014">14</sup>Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O <b>Lord</b>, my strength, and my redeemer.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-20" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">20</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020002">2</sup>Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of Zion;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020003">3</sup>Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice; Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020004">4</sup>Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020005">5</sup>We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners: the <b>Lord</b> fulfil all thy petitions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020006">6</sup>Now know I that the <b>Lord</b> saveth his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020007">7</sup>Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the <b>Lord</b> our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020008">8</sup>They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand upright.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020009">9</sup>Save, <b>Lord</b>: let the king hear us when we call.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-21" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">21</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021001">1</sup>The king shall joy in thy strength, O <b>Lord</b>; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021002">2</sup>Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021003">3</sup>For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021004">4</sup>He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021005">5</sup>His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021006">6</sup>For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021007">7</sup>For the king trusteth in the <b>Lord</b>, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021008">8</sup>Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021009">9</sup>Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the <b>Lord</b> shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021010">10</sup>Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021011">11</sup>For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021012">12</sup>Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021013">13</sup>Be thou exalted, <b>Lord</b>, in thine own strength: so will we sing and praise thy power.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-22" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">22</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022001">1</sup>My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022002">2</sup>O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022003">3</sup>But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022004">4</sup>Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022005">5</sup>They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022006">6</sup>But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022007">7</sup>All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022008">8</sup>He trusted on the <b>Lord</b> that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022009">9</sup>But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother’s breasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022010">10</sup>I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother’s belly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022011">11</sup>Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022012">12</sup>Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022013">13</sup>They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022014">14</sup>I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022015">15</sup>My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022016">16</sup>For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022017">17</sup>I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022018">18</sup>They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022019">19</sup>But be not thou far from me, O <b>Lord</b>: O my strength, haste thee to help me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022020">20</sup>Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022021">21</sup>Save me from the lion’s mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022022">22</sup>I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022023">23</sup>Ye that fear the <b>Lord</b>, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022024">24</sup>For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022025">25</sup>My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022026">26</sup>The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the <b>Lord</b> that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022027">27</sup>All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the <b>Lord</b>: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022028">28</sup>For the kingdom is the <b>Lord</b>’s: and he is the governor among the nations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022029">29</sup>All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022030">30</sup>A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022031">31</sup>They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-23" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">23</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my shepherd; I shall not want.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023002">2</sup>He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023003">3</sup>He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023004">4</sup>Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023005">5</sup>Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023006">6</sup>Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the <b>Lord</b> for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-24" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">24</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024001">1</sup>The earth is the <b>Lord</b>’s, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024002">2</sup>For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024003">3</sup>Who shall ascend into the hill of the <b>Lord</b>? or who shall stand in his holy place?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024004">4</sup>He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024005">5</sup>He shall receive the blessing from the <b>Lord</b>, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024006">6</sup>This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024007">7</sup>Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024008">8</sup>Who is this King of glory? The <b>Lord</b> strong and mighty, the <b>Lord</b> mighty in battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024009">9</sup>Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024010">10</sup>Who is this King of glory? The <b>Lord</b> of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-25" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">25</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025001">1</sup>Unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, do I lift up my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025002">2</sup>O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025003">3</sup>Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025004">4</sup>Shew me thy ways, O <b>Lord</b>; teach me thy paths.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025005">5</sup>Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025006">6</sup>Remember, O <b>Lord</b>, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they have been ever of old.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025007">7</sup>Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness’ sake, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025008">8</sup>Good and upright is the <b>Lord</b>: therefore will he teach sinners in the way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025009">9</sup>The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025010">10</sup>All the paths of the <b>Lord</b> are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025011">11</sup>For thy name’s sake, O <b>Lord</b>, pardon mine iniquity; for it is great.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025012">12</sup>What man is he that feareth the <b>Lord</b>? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025013">13</sup>His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025014">14</sup>The secret of the <b>Lord</b> is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025015">15</sup>Mine eyes are ever toward the <b>Lord</b>; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025016">16</sup>Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and afflicted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025017">17</sup>The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025018">18</sup>Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025019">19</sup>Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025020">20</sup>O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025021">21</sup>Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025022">22</sup>Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-26" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">26</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026001">1</sup>Judge me, O <b>Lord</b>; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have trusted also in the <b>Lord</b>; therefore I shall not slide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026002">2</sup>Examine me, O <b>Lord</b>, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026003">3</sup>For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in thy truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026004">4</sup>I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026005">5</sup>I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026006">6</sup>I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine altar, O <b>Lord</b>:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026007">7</sup>That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026008">8</sup><b>Lord</b>, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026009">9</sup>Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026010">10</sup>In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026011">11</sup>But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be merciful unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026012">12</sup>My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-27" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">27</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the <b>Lord</b> is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027002">2</sup>When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027003">3</sup>Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027004">4</sup>One thing have I desired of the <b>Lord</b>, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the <b>Lord</b> all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the <b>Lord</b>, and to enquire in his temple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027005">5</sup>For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027006">6</sup>And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027007">7</sup>Hear, O <b>Lord</b>, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027008">8</sup>When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, <b>Lord</b>, will I seek.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027009">9</sup>Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027010">10</sup>When my father and my mother forsake me, then the <b>Lord</b> will take me up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027011">11</sup>Teach me thy way, O <b>Lord</b>, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027012">12</sup>Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027013">13</sup>I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the <b>Lord</b> in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027014">14</sup>Wait on the <b>Lord</b>: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-28" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">28</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028001">1</sup>Unto thee will I cry, O <b>Lord</b> my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028002">2</sup>Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028003">3</sup>Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in their hearts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028004">4</sup>Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028005">5</sup>Because they regard not the works of the <b>Lord</b>, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028006">6</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b>, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028009">9</sup>Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-29" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">29</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029001">1</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b>, O ye mighty, give unto the <b>Lord</b> glory and strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029002">2</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b> the glory due unto his name; worship the <b>Lord</b> in the beauty of holiness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029003">3</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the <b>Lord</b> is upon many waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029004">4</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> is powerful; the voice of the <b>Lord</b> is full of majesty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029005">5</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> breaketh the cedars; yea, the <b>Lord</b> breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029006">6</sup>He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029007">7</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> divideth the flames of fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029008">8</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> shaketh the wilderness; the <b>Lord</b> shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029009">9</sup>The voice of the <b>Lord</b> maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029010">10</sup>The <b>Lord</b> sitteth upon the flood; yea, the <b>Lord</b> sitteth King for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will give strength unto his people; the <b>Lord</b> will bless his people with peace.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-30" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">30</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030001">1</sup>I will extol thee, O <b>Lord</b>; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030002">2</sup>O <b>Lord</b> my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030003">3</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030004">4</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030005">5</sup>For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030006">6</sup>And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030007">7</sup><b>Lord</b>, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030008">8</sup>I cried to thee, O <b>Lord</b>; and unto the <b>Lord</b> I made supplication.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030009">9</sup>What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030010">10</sup>Hear, O <b>Lord</b>, and have mercy upon me: <b>Lord</b>, be thou my helper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030011">11</sup>Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030012">12</sup>To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O <b>Lord</b> my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-31" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">31</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031001">1</sup>In thee, O <b>Lord</b>, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031002">2</sup>Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031003">3</sup>For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name’s sake lead me, and guide me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031004">4</sup>Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031005">5</sup>Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O <b>Lord</b> God of truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031006">6</sup>I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031007">7</sup>I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031008">8</sup>And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031009">9</sup>Have mercy upon me, O <b>Lord</b>, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031010">10</sup>For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031011">11</sup>I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031012">12</sup>I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031013">13</sup>For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031014">14</sup>But I trusted in thee, O <b>Lord</b>: I said, Thou art my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031015">15</sup>My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031016">16</sup>Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies’ sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031017">17</sup>Let me not be ashamed, O <b>Lord</b>; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031018">18</sup>Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031019">19</sup>Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031020">20</sup>Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031021">21</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b>: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031022">22</sup>For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031023">23</sup>O love the <b>Lord</b>, all ye his saints: for the <b>Lord</b> preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031024">24</sup>Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-32" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">32</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032001">1</sup>Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032002">2</sup>Blessed is the man unto whom the <b>Lord</b> imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032003">3</sup>When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032004">4</sup>For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032005">5</sup>I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the <b>Lord</b>; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032006">6</sup>For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032007">7</sup>Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032008">8</sup>I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032009">9</sup>Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032010">10</sup>Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the <b>Lord</b>, mercy shall compass him about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032011">11</sup>Be glad in the <b>Lord</b>, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-33" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">33</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033001">1</sup>Rejoice in the <b>Lord</b>, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033002">2</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b> with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033003">3</sup>Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033004">4</sup>For the word of the <b>Lord</b> is right; and all his works are done in truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033005">5</sup>He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033006">6</sup>By the word of the <b>Lord</b> were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033007">7</sup>He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033008">8</sup>Let all the earth fear the <b>Lord</b>: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033009">9</sup>For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033010">10</sup>The <b>Lord</b> bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033011">11</sup>The counsel of the <b>Lord</b> standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033012">12</sup>Blessed is the nation whose God is the <b>Lord</b>; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033013">13</sup>The <b>Lord</b> looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033014">14</sup>From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033015">15</sup>He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033016">16</sup>There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033017">17</sup>An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033018">18</sup>Behold, the eye of the <b>Lord</b> is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033019">19</sup>To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033020">20</sup>Our soul waiteth for the <b>Lord</b>: he is our help and our shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033021">21</sup>For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033022">22</sup>Let thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-34" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">34</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034001">1</sup>I will bless the <b>Lord</b> at all times: his praise shall continually be in my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034002">2</sup>My soul shall make her boast in the <b>Lord</b>: the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034003">3</sup>O magnify the <b>Lord</b> with me, and let us exalt his name together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034004">4</sup>I sought the <b>Lord</b>, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034005">5</sup>They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034006">6</sup>This poor man cried, and the <b>Lord</b> heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034007">7</sup>The angel of the <b>Lord</b> encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034008">8</sup>O taste and see that the <b>Lord</b> is good: blessed is the man that trusteth in him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034009">9</sup>O fear the <b>Lord</b>, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034010">10</sup>The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the <b>Lord</b> shall not want any good thing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034011">11</sup>Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034012">12</sup>What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034013">13</sup>Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034014">14</sup>Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034015">15</sup>The eyes of the <b>Lord</b> are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034016">16</sup>The face of the <b>Lord</b> is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034017">17</sup>The righteous cry, and the <b>Lord</b> heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034019">19</sup>Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the <b>Lord</b> delivereth him out of them all.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034020">20</sup>He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034021">21</sup>Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034022">22</sup>The <b>Lord</b> redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-35" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">35</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035001">1</sup>Plead my cause, O <b>Lord</b>, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035002">2</sup>Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035003">3</sup>Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035004">4</sup>Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035005">5</sup>Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the <b>Lord</b> chase them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035006">6</sup>Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the <b>Lord</b> persecute them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035007">7</sup>For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035008">8</sup>Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035009">9</sup>And my soul shall be joyful in the <b>Lord</b>: it shall rejoice in his salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035010">10</sup>All my bones shall say, <b>Lord</b>, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035011">11</sup>False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035012">12</sup>They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035013">13</sup>But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035014">14</sup>I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035015">15</sup>But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035016">16</sup>With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035017">17</sup>Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035018">18</sup>I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035019">19</sup>Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035020">20</sup>For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035021">21</sup>Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035022">22</sup>This thou hast seen, O <b>Lord</b>: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035023">23</sup>Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035024">24</sup>Judge me, O <b>Lord</b> my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035025">25</sup>Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035026">26</sup>Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035027">27</sup>Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the <b>Lord</b> be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035028">28</sup>And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise all the day long.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-36" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">36</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036001">1</sup>The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there is no fear of God before his eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036002">2</sup>For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036003">3</sup>The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to be wise, and to do good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036004">4</sup>He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036005">5</sup>Thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036006">6</sup>Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are a great deep: O <b>Lord</b>, thou preservest man and beast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036007">7</sup>How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036008">8</sup>They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036009">9</sup>For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036010">10</sup>O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy righteousness to the upright in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036011">11</sup>Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036012">12</sup>There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-37" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">37</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037001">1</sup>Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037002">2</sup>For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037003">3</sup>Trust in the <b>Lord</b>, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037004">4</sup>Delight thyself also in the <b>Lord</b>: and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037005">5</sup>Commit thy way unto the <b>Lord</b>; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037006">6</sup>And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037007">7</sup>Rest in the <b>Lord</b>, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037008">8</sup>Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037009">9</sup>For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the <b>Lord</b>, they shall inherit the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037010">10</sup>For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037011">11</sup>But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037012">12</sup>The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037013">13</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037014">14</sup>The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037015">15</sup>Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037016">16</sup>A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037017">17</sup>For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the <b>Lord</b> upholdeth the righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037019">19</sup>They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037020">20</sup>But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the <b>Lord</b> shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037021">21</sup>The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037022">22</sup>For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they that be cursed of him shall be cut off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037023">23</sup>The steps of a good man are ordered by the <b>Lord</b>: and he delighteth in his way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037024">24</sup>Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the <b>Lord</b> upholdeth him with his hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037025">25</sup>I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037026">26</sup>He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037027">27</sup>Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037028">28</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037029">29</sup>The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037030">30</sup>The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037031">31</sup>The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037032">32</sup>The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037033">33</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037034">34</sup>Wait on the <b>Lord</b>, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037035">35</sup>I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037036">36</sup>Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037037">37</sup>Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of that man is peace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037038">38</sup>But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037039">39</sup>But the salvation of the righteous is of the <b>Lord</b>: he is their strength in the time of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037040">40</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-38" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">38</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038001">1</sup>O lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038002">2</sup>For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038003">3</sup>There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038004">4</sup>For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038005">5</sup>My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038006">6</sup>I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038007">7</sup>For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no soundness in my flesh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038008">8</sup>I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038009">9</sup>Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038010">10</sup>My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038011">11</sup>My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038012">12</sup>They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038013">13</sup>But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038014">14</sup>Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no reproofs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038015">15</sup>For in thee, O <b>Lord</b>, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038016">16</sup>For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me: when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038017">17</sup>For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038018">18</sup>For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038019">19</sup>But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038020">20</sup>They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries; because I follow the thing that good is.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038021">21</sup>Forsake me not, O <b>Lord</b>: O my God, be not far from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038022">22</sup>Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-39" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">39</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039001">1</sup>I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039002">2</sup>I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my sorrow was stirred.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039003">3</sup>My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spake I with my tongue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039004">4</sup><b>Lord</b>, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: that I may know how frail I am.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039005">5</sup>Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039006">6</sup>Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039007">7</sup>And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039008">8</sup>Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039009">9</sup>I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039010">10</sup>Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039011">11</sup>When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039012">12</sup>Hear my prayer, O <b>Lord</b>, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039013">13</sup>O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-40" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">40</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040001">1</sup>I waited patiently for the <b>Lord</b>; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040002">2</sup>He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040003">3</sup>And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040004">4</sup>Blessed is that man that maketh the <b>Lord</b> his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040005">5</sup>Many, O <b>Lord</b> my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040006">6</sup>Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040007">7</sup>Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040008">8</sup>I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040009">9</sup>I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O <b>Lord</b>, thou knowest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040010">10</sup>I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040011">11</sup>Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O <b>Lord</b>: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040012">12</sup>For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040013">13</sup>Be pleased, O <b>Lord</b>, to deliver me: O <b>Lord</b>, make haste to help me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040014">14</sup>Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040015">15</sup>Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040016">16</sup>Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The <b>Lord</b> be magnified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040017">17</sup>But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-41" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">41</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041001">1</sup>Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the <b>Lord</b> will deliver him in time of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041004">4</sup>I said, <b>Lord</b>, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041005">5</sup>Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041006">6</sup>And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041007">7</sup>All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041008">8</sup>An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041009">9</sup>Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041010">10</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041011">11</sup>By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041012">12</sup>And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041013">13</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-42" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">42</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042001">1</sup>As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042002">2</sup>My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042003">3</sup>My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042004">4</sup>When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042005">5</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042006">6</sup>O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042007">7</sup>Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042008">8</sup>Yet the <b>Lord</b> will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042009">9</sup>I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042010">10</sup>As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042011">11</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-43" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">43</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043001">1</sup>Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043002">2</sup>For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043003">3</sup>O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043004">4</sup>Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy: yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043005">5</sup>Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-44" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">44</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044001">1</sup>We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044002">2</sup>How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044003">3</sup>For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044004">4</sup>Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044005">5</sup>Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044006">6</sup>For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044007">7</sup>But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044008">8</sup>In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044009">9</sup>But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044010">10</sup>Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044011">11</sup>Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044012">12</sup>Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy wealth by their price.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044013">13</sup>Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044014">14</sup>Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044015">15</sup>My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044016">16</sup>For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044017">17</sup>All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044018">18</sup>Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044019">19</sup>Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044020">20</sup>If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044021">21</sup>Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044022">22</sup>Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044023">23</sup>Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044024">24</sup>Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044025">25</sup>For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044026">26</sup>Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies’ sake.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-45" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">45</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045001">1</sup>My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045002">2</sup>Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045003">3</sup>Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045004">4</sup>And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045005">5</sup>Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king’s enemies; whereby the people fall under thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045006">6</sup>Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045007">7</sup>Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045008">8</sup>All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045009">9</sup>Kings’ daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045010">10</sup>Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045011">11</sup>So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045012">12</sup>And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045013">13</sup>The king’s daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045014">14</sup>She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045015">15</sup>With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king’s palace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045016">16</sup>Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045017">17</sup>I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-46" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">46</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046001">1</sup>God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046002">2</sup>Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046003">3</sup>Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046004">4</sup>There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046005">5</sup>God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046006">6</sup>The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046008">8</sup>Come, behold the works of the <b>Lord</b>, what desolations he hath made in the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046009">9</sup>He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046010">10</sup>Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-47" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">47</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047001">1</sup>O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047002">2</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047003">3</sup>He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047004">4</sup>He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047005">5</sup>God is gone up with a shout, the <b>Lord</b> with the sound of a trumpet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047006">6</sup>Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King, sing praises.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047007">7</sup>For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047008">8</sup>God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047009">9</sup>The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God: he is greatly exalted.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-48" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">48</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048001">1</sup>Great is the <b>Lord</b>, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048002">2</sup>Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048003">3</sup>God is known in her palaces for a refuge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048004">4</sup>For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048005">5</sup>They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and hasted away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048006">6</sup>Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048007">7</sup>Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048008">8</sup>As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048009">9</sup>We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048010">10</sup>According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048011">11</sup>Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048012">12</sup>Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048013">13</sup>Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048014">14</sup>For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even unto death.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-49" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">49</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049001">1</sup>Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049002">2</sup>Both low and high, rich and poor, together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049003">3</sup>My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049004">4</sup>I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049005">5</sup>Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049006">6</sup>They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049007">7</sup>None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049008">8</sup>(For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:)</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049009">9</sup>That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049010">10</sup>For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049011">11</sup>Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049012">12</sup>Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049013">13</sup>This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049014">14</sup>Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049015">15</sup>But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049016">16</sup>Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049017">17</sup>For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049018">18</sup>Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049019">19</sup>He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049020">20</sup>Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-50" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">50</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050001">1</sup>The mighty God, even the <b>Lord</b>, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050002">2</sup>Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050003">3</sup>Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050004">4</sup>He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050005">5</sup>Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050006">6</sup>And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050007">7</sup>Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I am God, even thy God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050008">8</sup>I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050009">9</sup>I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy folds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050010">10</sup>For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050011">11</sup>I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050012">12</sup>If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050013">13</sup>Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050014">14</sup>Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050015">15</sup>And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050016">16</sup>But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050017">17</sup>Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050018">18</sup>When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050019">19</sup>Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050020">20</sup>Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother’s son.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050021">21</sup>These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050022">22</sup>Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050023">23</sup>Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-51" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">51</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051001">1</sup>Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051002">2</sup>Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051003">3</sup>For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051004">4</sup>Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051005">5</sup>Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051006">6</sup>Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051007">7</sup>Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051008">8</sup>Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051009">9</sup>Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051010">10</sup>Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051011">11</sup>Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051012">12</sup>Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051013">13</sup>Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051014">14</sup>Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051015">15</sup>O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051016">16</sup>For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051017">17</sup>The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051018">18</sup>Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051019">19</sup>Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-52" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">52</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052001">1</sup>Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth continually.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052002">2</sup>The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052003">3</sup>Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052004">4</sup>Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052005">5</sup>God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052006">6</sup>The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052007">7</sup>Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052008">8</sup>But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052009">9</sup>I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-53" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">53</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053001">1</sup>The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053002">2</sup>God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053003">3</sup>Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053004">4</sup>Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053005">5</sup>There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053006">6</sup>Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-54" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">54</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054001">1</sup>Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054002">2</sup>Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054003">3</sup>For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054004">4</sup>Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054005">5</sup>He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054006">6</sup>I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O <b>Lord</b>; for it is good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054007">7</sup>For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-55" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">55</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055001">1</sup>Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055002">2</sup>Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055003">3</sup>Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055004">4</sup>My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055005">5</sup>Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055006">6</sup>And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055007">7</sup>Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055008">8</sup>I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055009">9</sup>Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055010">10</sup>Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055011">11</sup>Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055012">12</sup>For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055013">13</sup>But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055014">14</sup>We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in company.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055015">15</sup>Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055016">16</sup>As for me, I will call upon God; and the <b>Lord</b> shall save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055017">17</sup>Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055018">18</sup>He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me: for there were many with me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055019">19</sup>God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055020">20</sup>He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055021">21</sup>The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055022">22</sup>Cast thy burden upon the <b>Lord</b>, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055023">23</sup>But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-56" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">56</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056001">1</sup>Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056002">2</sup>Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O thou most High.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056003">3</sup>What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056004">4</sup>In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056005">5</sup>Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056006">6</sup>They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056007">7</sup>Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the people, O God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056008">8</sup>Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056009">9</sup>When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056010">10</sup>In God will I praise his word: in the <b>Lord</b> will I praise his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056011">11</sup>In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056012">12</sup>Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056013">13</sup>For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-57" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">57</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057001">1</sup>Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057002">2</sup>I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all things for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057003">3</sup>He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057004">4</sup>My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057005">5</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057006">6</sup>They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057007">7</sup>My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057008">8</sup>Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057009">9</sup>I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057010">10</sup>For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057011">11</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-58" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">58</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058001">1</sup>Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058002">2</sup>Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058003">3</sup>The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058004">4</sup>Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058005">5</sup>Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058006">6</sup>Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058007">7</sup>Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058008">8</sup>As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058009">9</sup>Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058010">10</sup>The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058011">11</sup>So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-59" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">59</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059001">1</sup>Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059002">2</sup>Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059003">3</sup>For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059004">4</sup>They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059005">5</sup>Thou therefore, O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059006">6</sup>They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059007">7</sup>Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, doth hear?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059008">8</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059009">9</sup>Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059010">10</sup>The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059011">11</sup>Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059012">12</sup>For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059013">13</sup>Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059014">14</sup>And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059015">15</sup>Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059016">16</sup>But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059017">17</sup>Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-60" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">60</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060001">1</sup>O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060002">2</sup>Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060003">3</sup>Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060004">4</sup>Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060005">5</sup>That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060006">6</sup>God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060007">7</sup>Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060008">8</sup>Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060009">9</sup>Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060010">10</sup>Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060011">11</sup>Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060012">12</sup>Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-61" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">61</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061001">1</sup>Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061002">2</sup>From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061003">3</sup>For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061004">4</sup>I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061005">5</sup>For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061006">6</sup>Thou wilt prolong the king’s life: and his years as many generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061007">7</sup>He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061008">8</sup>So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-62" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">62</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062001">1</sup>Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062002">2</sup>He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062003">3</sup>How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062004">4</sup>They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062005">5</sup>My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062006">6</sup>He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062007">7</sup>In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062008">8</sup>Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062009">9</sup>Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062010">10</sup>Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062011">11</sup>God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062012">12</sup>Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-63" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">63</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063001">1</sup>O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063002">2</sup>To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063003">3</sup>Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063004">4</sup>Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063005">5</sup>My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063006">6</sup>When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063007">7</sup>Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063008">8</sup>My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063009">9</sup>But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063010">10</sup>They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063011">11</sup>But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-64" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">64</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064001">1</sup>Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064002">2</sup>Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064003">3</sup>Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064004">4</sup>That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064005">5</sup>They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064006">6</sup>They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064007">7</sup>But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064008">8</sup>So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064009">9</sup>And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064010">10</sup>The righteous shall be glad in the <b>Lord</b>, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-65" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">65</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065001">1</sup>Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065002">2</sup>O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065003">3</sup>Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065004">4</sup>Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065005">5</sup>By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065006">6</sup>Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065007">7</sup>Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065008">8</sup>They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065009">9</sup>Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065010">10</sup>Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065011">11</sup>Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065012">12</sup>They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065013">13</sup>The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-66" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">66</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066001">1</sup>Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066002">2</sup>Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066003">3</sup>Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066004">4</sup>All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066005">5</sup>Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066006">6</sup>He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066007">7</sup>He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066008">8</sup>O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066009">9</sup>Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066010">10</sup>For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066011">11</sup>Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066012">12</sup>Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066013">13</sup>I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066014">14</sup>Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066015">15</sup>I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066016">16</sup>Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066017">17</sup>I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066018">18</sup>If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066019">19</sup>But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066020">20</sup>Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-67" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">67</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067001">1</sup>God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us; Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067002">2</sup>That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067003">3</sup>Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067004">4</sup>O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067005">5</sup>Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067006">6</sup>Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-067007">7</sup>God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-68" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">68</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068001">1</sup>Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068002">2</sup>As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068003">3</sup>But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068004">4</sup>Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name <b>Jah</b>, and rejoice before him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068005">5</sup>A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068006">6</sup>God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068007">7</sup>O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068008">8</sup>The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068009">9</sup>Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068010">10</sup>Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068011">11</sup>The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068012">12</sup>Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068013">13</sup>Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068014">14</sup>When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068015">15</sup>The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068016">16</sup>Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the <b>Lord</b> will dwell in it for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068017">17</sup>The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068018">18</sup>Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the <b>Lord</b> God might dwell among them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068019">19</sup>Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068020">20</sup>He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto <b>God</b> the Lord belong the issues from death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068021">21</sup>But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068022">22</sup>The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068023">23</sup>That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and the tongue of thy dogs in the same.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068024">24</sup>They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068025">25</sup>The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068026">26</sup>Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068027">27</sup>There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068028">28</sup>Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068029">29</sup>Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068030">30</sup>Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068031">31</sup>Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068032">32</sup>Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068033">33</sup>To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068034">34</sup>Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-068035">35</sup>O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-69" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">69</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069001">1</sup>Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069002">2</sup>I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069003">3</sup>I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069004">4</sup>They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069005">5</sup>O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069006">6</sup>Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord <b>God</b> of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069007">7</sup>Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069008">8</sup>I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother’s children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069009">9</sup>For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069010">10</sup>When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069011">11</sup>I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069012">12</sup>They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069013">13</sup>But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069014">14</sup>Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069015">15</sup>Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069016">16</sup>Hear me, O <b>Lord</b>; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069017">17</sup>And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069018">18</sup>Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069019">19</sup>Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069020">20</sup>Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069021">21</sup>They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069022">22</sup>Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069023">23</sup>Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069024">24</sup>Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069025">25</sup>Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069026">26</sup>For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069027">27</sup>Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069028">28</sup>Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069029">29</sup>But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069030">30</sup>I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069031">31</sup>This also shall please the <b>Lord</b> better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069032">32</sup>The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069033">33</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069034">34</sup>Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069035">35</sup>For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-069036">36</sup>The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<h5>19:<sup class="verse-number" id="verse-070001">1</sup>MAKE HASTE, O <b>God</b>, TO DELIVER ME; MAKE HASTE TO HELP ME, O <b>Lord</b>.</h5>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-070002">2</sup>Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-070003">3</sup>Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-070004">4</sup>Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-070005">5</sup>But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O <b>Lord</b>, make no tarrying.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-71" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">71</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071001">1</sup>In thee, O <b>Lord</b>, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071002">2</sup>Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071003">3</sup>Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071004">4</sup>Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071005">5</sup>For thou art my hope, O Lord <b>God</b>: thou art my trust from my youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071006">6</sup>By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother’s bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071007">7</sup>I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071008">8</sup>Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all the day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071009">9</sup>Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071010">10</sup>For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071011">11</sup>Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071012">12</sup>O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071013">13</sup>Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071014">14</sup>But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071015">15</sup>My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071016">16</sup>I will go in the strength of the Lord <b>God</b>: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071017">17</sup>O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071018">18</sup>Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071019">19</sup>Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071020">20</sup>Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071021">21</sup>Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071022">22</sup>I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071023">23</sup>My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-071024">24</sup>My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-72" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">72</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072001">1</sup>Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king’s son.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072002">2</sup>He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072003">3</sup>The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072004">4</sup>He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072005">5</sup>They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072006">6</sup>He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072007">7</sup>In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072008">8</sup>He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072009">9</sup>They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072010">10</sup>The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072011">11</sup>Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072012">12</sup>For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072013">13</sup>He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072014">14</sup>He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072015">15</sup>And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072016">16</sup>There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072017">17</sup>His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072018">18</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072019">19</sup>And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-072020">20</sup>The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-73" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">73</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073001">1</sup>Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073002">2</sup>But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073003">3</sup>For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073004">4</sup>For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073005">5</sup>They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073006">6</sup>Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them as a garment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073007">7</sup>Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073008">8</sup>They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073009">9</sup>They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073010">10</sup>Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073011">11</sup>And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073012">12</sup>Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073013">13</sup>Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073014">14</sup>For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073015">15</sup>If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073016">16</sup>When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073017">17</sup>Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073018">18</sup>Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073019">19</sup>How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073020">20</sup>As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073021">21</sup>Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073022">22</sup>So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073023">23</sup>Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073024">24</sup>Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073025">25</sup>Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073026">26</sup>My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073027">27</sup>For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-073028">28</sup>But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord <b>God</b>, that I may declare all thy works.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-74" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">74</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074001">1</sup>O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074002">2</sup>Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074003">3</sup>Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074004">4</sup>Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074005">5</sup>A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074006">6</sup>But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074007">7</sup>They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074008">8</sup>They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074009">9</sup>We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074010">10</sup>O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074011">11</sup>Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074012">12</sup>For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074013">13</sup>Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074014">14</sup>Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074015">15</sup>Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074016">16</sup>The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074017">17</sup>Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074018">18</sup>Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O <b>Lord</b>, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074019">19</sup>O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074020">20</sup>Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074021">21</sup>O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074022">22</sup>Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-074023">23</sup>Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-75" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">75</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075001">1</sup>Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075002">2</sup>When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075003">3</sup>The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075004">4</sup>I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075005">5</sup>Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075006">6</sup>For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075007">7</sup>But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075008">8</sup>For in the hand of the <b>Lord</b> there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075009">9</sup>But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-075010">10</sup>All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-76" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">76</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076001">1</sup>In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076002">2</sup>In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076003">3</sup>There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076004">4</sup>Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076005">5</sup>The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076006">6</sup>At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076007">7</sup>Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076008">8</sup>Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076009">9</sup>When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076010">10</sup>Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076011">11</sup>Vow, and pay unto the <b>Lord</b> your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-076012">12</sup>He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-77" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">77</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077001">1</sup>I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077002">2</sup>In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077003">3</sup>I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077004">4</sup>Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077005">5</sup>I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077006">6</sup>I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077007">7</sup>Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077008">8</sup>Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077009">9</sup>Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077010">10</sup>And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077011">11</sup>I will remember the works of the <b>Lord</b>: surely I will remember thy wonders of old.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077012">12</sup>I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077013">13</sup>Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077014">14</sup>Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077015">15</sup>Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077016">16</sup>The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077017">17</sup>The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077018">18</sup>The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077019">19</sup>Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-077020">20</sup>Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-78" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">78</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078001">1</sup>Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078002">2</sup>I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078003">3</sup>Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078004">4</sup>We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the <b>Lord</b>, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078005">5</sup>For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078006">6</sup>That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078007">7</sup>That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078008">8</sup>And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078009">9</sup>The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078010">10</sup>They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078011">11</sup>And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078012">12</sup>Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078013">13</sup>He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078014">14</sup>In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078015">15</sup>He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078016">16</sup>He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078017">17</sup>And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078018">18</sup>And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078019">19</sup>Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078020">20</sup>Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078021">21</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078022">22</sup>Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078023">23</sup>Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078024">24</sup>And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078025">25</sup>Man did eat angels’ food: he sent them meat to the full.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078026">26</sup>He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078027">27</sup>He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078028">28</sup>And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078029">29</sup>So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078030">30</sup>They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078031">31</sup>The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078032">32</sup>For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078033">33</sup>Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078034">34</sup>When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078035">35</sup>And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078036">36</sup>Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078037">37</sup>For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078038">38</sup>But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078039">39</sup>For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078040">40</sup>How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078041">41</sup>Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078042">42</sup>They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078043">43</sup>How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078044">44</sup>And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078045">45</sup>He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078046">46</sup>He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078047">47</sup>He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078048">48</sup>He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078049">49</sup>He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078050">50</sup>He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078051">51</sup>And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078052">52</sup>But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078053">53</sup>And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078054">54</sup>And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078055">55</sup>He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078056">56</sup>Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078057">57</sup>But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078058">58</sup>For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078059">59</sup>When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078060">60</sup>So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078061">61</sup>And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy’s hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078062">62</sup>He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078063">63</sup>The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078064">64</sup>Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078065">65</sup>Then the <b>Lord</b> awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078066">66</sup>And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078067">67</sup>Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078068">68</sup>But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078069">69</sup>And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078070">70</sup>He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078071">71</sup>From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-078072">72</sup>So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-79" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">79</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079001">1</sup>O god, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079002">2</sup>The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079003">3</sup>Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079004">4</sup>We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079005">5</sup>How long, <b>Lord</b>? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079006">6</sup>Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079007">7</sup>For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079008">8</sup>O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079009">9</sup>Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name’s sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079010">10</sup>Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079011">11</sup>Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079012">12</sup>And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-079013">13</sup>So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-80" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">80</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080001">1</sup>Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080002">2</sup>Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080003">3</sup>Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080004">4</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080005">5</sup>Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080006">6</sup>Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080007">7</sup>Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080008">8</sup>Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080009">9</sup>Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080010">10</sup>The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080011">11</sup>She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080012">12</sup>Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080013">13</sup>The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080014">14</sup>Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080015">15</sup>And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080016">16</sup>It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080017">17</sup>Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080018">18</sup>So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-080019">19</sup>Turn us again, O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-81" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">81</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081001">1</sup>Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081002">2</sup>Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081003">3</sup>Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081004">4</sup>For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081005">5</sup>This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081006">6</sup>I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081007">7</sup>Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081008">8</sup>Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081009">9</sup>There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081010">10</sup>I am the <b>Lord</b> thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081011">11</sup>But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081012">12</sup>So I gave them up unto their own hearts’ lust: and they walked in their own counsels.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081013">13</sup>Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081014">14</sup>I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081015">15</sup>The haters of the <b>Lord</b> should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-081016">16</sup>He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-82" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">82</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082001">1</sup>God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082002">2</sup>How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082003">3</sup>Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082004">4</sup>Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082005">5</sup>They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082006">6</sup>I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082007">7</sup>But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-082008">8</sup>Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-83" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">83</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083001">1</sup>Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083002">2</sup>For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083003">3</sup>They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083004">4</sup>They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083005">5</sup>For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083006">6</sup>The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083007">7</sup>Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083008">8</sup>Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083009">9</sup>Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083010">10</sup>Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083011">11</sup>Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083012">12</sup>Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083013">13</sup>O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083014">14</sup>As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083015">15</sup>So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083016">16</sup>Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083017">17</sup>Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-083018">18</sup>That men may know that thou, whose name alone is <b>Jehovah</b>, art the most high over all the earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-84" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">84</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084001">1</sup>How amiable are thy tabernacles, O <b>Lord</b> of hosts!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084002">2</sup>My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the <b>Lord</b>: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084003">3</sup>Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O <b>Lord</b> of hosts, my King, and my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084004">4</sup>Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084005">5</sup>Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084006">6</sup>Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084007">7</sup>They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084008">8</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084009">9</sup>Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084010">10</sup>For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084011">11</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> God is a sun and shield: the <b>Lord</b> will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-084012">12</sup>O <b>Lord</b> of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-85" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">85</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085001">1</sup>Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085002">2</sup>Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085003">3</sup>Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085004">4</sup>Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085005">5</sup>Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085006">6</sup>Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085007">7</sup>Shew us thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, and grant us thy salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085008">8</sup>I will hear what God the <b>Lord</b> will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085009">9</sup>Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085010">10</sup>Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085011">11</sup>Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085012">12</sup>Yea, the <b>Lord</b> shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-085013">13</sup>Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-86" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">86</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086001">1</sup>Bow down thine ear, O <b>Lord</b>, hear me: for I am poor and needy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086002">2</sup>Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086003">3</sup>Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086004">4</sup>Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086005">5</sup>For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086006">6</sup>Give ear, O <b>Lord</b>, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086007">7</sup>In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086008">8</sup>Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are there any works like unto thy works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086009">9</sup>All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086010">10</sup>For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God alone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086011">11</sup>Teach me thy way, O <b>Lord</b>; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086012">12</sup>I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086013">13</sup>For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086014">14</sup>O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086015">15</sup>But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086016">16</sup>O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-086017">17</sup>Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast holpen me, and comforted me.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-87" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">87</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087001">1</sup>His foundation is in the holy mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087003">3</sup>Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087004">4</sup>I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087005">5</sup>And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-087007">7</sup>As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-88" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">88</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088001">1</sup>O lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088002">2</sup>Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088003">3</sup>For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088004">4</sup>I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088005">5</sup>Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088006">6</sup>Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088007">7</sup>Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088008">8</sup>Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088009">9</sup>Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: <b>Lord</b>, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088010">10</sup>Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088011">11</sup>Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088012">12</sup>Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088013">13</sup>But unto thee have I cried, O <b>Lord</b>; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088014">14</sup><b>Lord</b>, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088015">15</sup>I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distracted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088016">16</sup>Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088017">17</sup>They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-088018">18</sup>Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine acquaintance into darkness.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-89" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">89</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089001">1</sup>I will sing of the mercies of the <b>Lord</b> for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089002">2</sup>For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089003">3</sup>I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089004">4</sup>Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089005">5</sup>And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O <b>Lord</b>: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089006">6</sup>For who in the heaven can be compared unto the <b>Lord</b>? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the <b>Lord</b>?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089007">7</sup>God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089008">8</sup>O <b>Lord</b> God of hosts, who is a strong <b>Lord</b> like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089009">9</sup>Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089010">10</sup>Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089011">11</sup>The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089012">12</sup>The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089013">13</sup>Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089014">14</sup>Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089015">15</sup>Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O <b>Lord</b>, in the light of thy countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089016">16</sup>In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089017">17</sup>For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089018">18</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089019">19</sup>Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089020">20</sup>I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089021">21</sup>With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089022">22</sup>The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089023">23</sup>And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089024">24</sup>But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089025">25</sup>I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089026">26</sup>He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089027">27</sup>Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089028">28</sup>My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089029">29</sup>His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089030">30</sup>If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089031">31</sup>If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089032">32</sup>Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089033">33</sup>Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089034">34</sup>My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089035">35</sup>Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089036">36</sup>His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089037">37</sup>It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089038">38</sup>But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089039">39</sup>Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089040">40</sup>Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089041">41</sup>All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089042">42</sup>Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089043">43</sup>Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089044">44</sup>Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089045">45</sup>The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089046">46</sup>How long, <b>Lord</b>? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089047">47</sup>Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089048">48</sup>What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089049">49</sup>Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089050">50</sup>Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089051">51</sup>Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O <b>Lord</b>; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-089052">52</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> for evermore. Amen, and Amen.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-90" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">90</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090001">1</sup>Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090002">2</sup>Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090003">3</sup>Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090004">4</sup>For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090005">5</sup>Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090006">6</sup>In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090007">7</sup>For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090008">8</sup>Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090009">9</sup>For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090010">10</sup>The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090011">11</sup>Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090012">12</sup>So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090013">13</sup>Return, O <b>Lord</b>, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090014">14</sup>O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090015">15</sup>Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090016">16</sup>Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090017">17</sup>And let the beauty of the <b>Lord</b> our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-91" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">91</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091001">1</sup>He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091002">2</sup>I will say of the <b>Lord</b>, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091003">3</sup>Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091004">4</sup>He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091005">5</sup>Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091006">6</sup>Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091007">7</sup>A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091008">8</sup>Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091009">9</sup>Because thou hast made the <b>Lord</b>, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091010">10</sup>There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091011">11</sup>For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091012">12</sup>They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091013">13</sup>Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091014">14</sup>Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091015">15</sup>He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091016">16</sup>With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<h5>19:<sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092001">1</sup>IT IS A GOOD THING TO GIVE THANKS UNTO THE <b>Lord</b>, AND TO SING PRAISES UNTO THY NAME, O MOST HIGH:</h5>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092002">2</sup>To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092003">3</sup>Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092004">4</sup>For thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092005">5</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092006">6</sup>A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092007">7</sup>When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092008">8</sup>But thou, <b>Lord</b>, art most high for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092009">9</sup>For, lo, thine enemies, O <b>Lord</b>, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092010">10</sup>But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092011">11</sup>Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092012">12</sup>The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092013">13</sup>Those that be planted in the house of the <b>Lord</b> shall flourish in the courts of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092014">14</sup>They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092015">15</sup>To shew that the <b>Lord</b> is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-93" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">93</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the <b>Lord</b> is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093002">2</sup>Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093003">3</sup>The floods have lifted up, O <b>Lord</b>, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093005">5</sup>Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O <b>Lord</b>, for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-94" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">94</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094001">1</sup>O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094002">2</sup>Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094003">3</sup><b>Lord</b>, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094004">4</sup>How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094005">5</sup>They break in pieces thy people, O <b>Lord</b>, and afflict thine heritage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094006">6</sup>They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094007">7</sup>Yet they say, The <b>Lord</b> shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094008">8</sup>Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094009">9</sup>He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094010">10</sup>He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094012">12</sup>Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O <b>Lord</b>, and teachest him out of thy law;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094013">13</sup>That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094014">14</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094015">15</sup>But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094016">16</sup>Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094017">17</sup>Unless the <b>Lord</b> had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094018">18</sup>When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, held me up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094019">19</sup>In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094020">20</sup>Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094021">21</sup>They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094022">22</sup>But the <b>Lord</b> is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094023">23</sup>And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the <b>Lord</b> our God shall cut them off.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-95" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">95</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095001">1</sup>O come, let us sing unto the <b>Lord</b>: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095002">2</sup>Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095003">3</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is a great God, and a great King above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095004">4</sup>In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095005">5</sup>The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095006">6</sup>O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the <b>Lord</b> our maker.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095007">7</sup>For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095008">8</sup>Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095009">9</sup>When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095010">10</sup>Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095011">11</sup>Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-96" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">96</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096001">1</sup>O sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song: sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096002">2</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096003">3</sup>Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096005">5</sup>For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the <b>Lord</b> made the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096006">6</sup>Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096007">7</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b>, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the <b>Lord</b> glory and strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096008">8</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b> the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096009">9</sup>O worship the <b>Lord</b> in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096010">10</sup>Say among the heathen that the <b>Lord</b> reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096011">11</sup>Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096012">12</sup>Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096013">13</sup>Before the <b>Lord</b>: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-97" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">97</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097002">2</sup>Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097003">3</sup>A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097004">4</sup>His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097005">5</sup>The hills melted like wax at the presence of the <b>Lord</b>, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097006">6</sup>The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097007">7</sup>Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097008">8</sup>Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097009">9</sup>For thou, <b>Lord</b>, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097010">10</sup>Ye that love the <b>Lord</b>, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097011">11</sup>Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097012">12</sup>Rejoice in the <b>Lord</b>, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-98" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">98</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098001">1</sup>O sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098003">3</sup>He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098004">4</sup>Make a joyful noise unto the <b>Lord</b>, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098005">5</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098006">6</sup>With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the <b>Lord</b>, the King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098007">7</sup>Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098008">8</sup>Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098009">9</sup>Before the <b>Lord</b>; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-99" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">99</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099003">3</sup>Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099004">4</sup>The king’s strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099005">5</sup>Exalt ye the <b>Lord</b> our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099006">6</sup>Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon the <b>Lord</b>, and he answered them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099007">7</sup>He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099008">8</sup>Thou answeredst them, O <b>Lord</b> our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099009">9</sup>Exalt the <b>Lord</b> our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the <b>Lord</b> our God is holy.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-100" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">100</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100001">1</sup>Make a joyful noise unto the <b>Lord</b>, all ye lands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100002">2</sup>Serve the <b>Lord</b> with gladness: come before his presence with singing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100003">3</sup>Know ye that the <b>Lord</b> he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100004">4</sup>Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100005">5</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-101" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">101</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101001">1</sup>I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, will I sing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101002">2</sup>I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101003">3</sup>I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101004">4</sup>A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101005">5</sup>Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101006">6</sup>Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101007">7</sup>He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101008">8</sup>I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-102" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">102</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102001">1</sup>Hear my prayer, O <b>Lord</b>, and let my cry come unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102002">2</sup>Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102003">3</sup>For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102004">4</sup>My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102005">5</sup>By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102006">6</sup>I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102007">7</sup>I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102008">8</sup>Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102009">9</sup>For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102010">10</sup>Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102011">11</sup>My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102012">12</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102013">13</sup>Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102014">14</sup>For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102015">15</sup>So the heathen shall fear the name of the <b>Lord</b>, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102016">16</sup>When the <b>Lord</b> shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102017">17</sup>He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102018">18</sup>This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102019">19</sup>For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the <b>Lord</b> behold the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102020">20</sup>To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102021">21</sup>To declare the name of the <b>Lord</b> in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102022">22</sup>When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102023">23</sup>He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102024">24</sup>I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102025">25</sup>Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102026">26</sup>They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102027">27</sup>But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102028">28</sup>The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-103" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">103</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103001">1</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103002">2</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103003">3</sup>Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103004">4</sup>Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103005">5</sup>Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle’s.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103007">7</sup>He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103009">9</sup>He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103010">10</sup>He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103011">11</sup>For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103012">12</sup>As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103013">13</sup>Like as a father pitieth his children, so the <b>Lord</b> pitieth them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103014">14</sup>For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103015">15</sup>As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103016">16</sup>For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103017">17</sup>But the mercy of the <b>Lord</b> is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103018">18</sup>To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103019">19</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103020">20</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103021">21</sup>Bless ye the <b>Lord</b>, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103022">22</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-104" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">104</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104001">1</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul. O <b>Lord</b> my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104002">2</sup>Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104003">3</sup>Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104004">4</sup>Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104005">5</sup>Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104006">6</sup>Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104007">7</sup>At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104008">8</sup>They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104009">9</sup>Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104010">10</sup>He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104011">11</sup>They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104012">12</sup>By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104013">13</sup>He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104014">14</sup>He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104015">15</sup>And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man’s heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104016">16</sup>The trees of the <b>Lord</b> are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104017">17</sup>Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104018">18</sup>The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104019">19</sup>He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104020">20</sup>Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104021">21</sup>The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104022">22</sup>The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104023">23</sup>Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104024">24</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104025">25</sup>So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104026">26</sup>There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104027">27</sup>These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104028">28</sup>That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104029">29</sup>Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104030">30</sup>Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104031">31</sup>The glory of the <b>Lord</b> shall endure for ever: the <b>Lord</b> shall rejoice in his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104032">32</sup>He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104033">33</sup>I will sing unto the <b>Lord</b> as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104034">34</sup>My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104035">35</sup>Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-105" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">105</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105002">2</sup>Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105003">3</sup>Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105004">4</sup>Seek the <b>Lord</b>, and his strength: seek his face evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105005">5</sup>Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105006">6</sup>O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105007">7</sup>He is the <b>Lord</b> our God: his judgments are in all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105008">8</sup>He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105009">9</sup>Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105010">10</sup>And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105011">11</sup>Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105012">12</sup>When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105013">13</sup>When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105014">14</sup>He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105015">15</sup>Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105016">16</sup>Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105017">17</sup>He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105018">18</sup>Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105019">19</sup>Until the time that his word came: the word of the <b>Lord</b> tried him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105020">20</sup>The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105021">21</sup>He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105022">22</sup>To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105023">23</sup>Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105024">24</sup>And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105025">25</sup>He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105026">26</sup>He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105027">27</sup>They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105028">28</sup>He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105029">29</sup>He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105030">30</sup>Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105031">31</sup>He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105032">32</sup>He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105033">33</sup>He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105034">34</sup>He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105035">35</sup>And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105036">36</sup>He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105037">37</sup>He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105038">38</sup>Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105039">39</sup>He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105040">40</sup>The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105041">41</sup>He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105042">42</sup>For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105043">43</sup>And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105044">44</sup>And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105045">45</sup>That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-106" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">106</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106002">2</sup>Who can utter the mighty acts of the <b>Lord</b>? who can shew forth all his praise?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106003">3</sup>Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106004">4</sup>Remember me, O <b>Lord</b>, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106005">5</sup>That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106006">6</sup>We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106007">7</sup>Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106008">8</sup>Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106009">9</sup>He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106010">10</sup>And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106011">11</sup>And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106012">12</sup>Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106013">13</sup>They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106014">14</sup>But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106015">15</sup>And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106016">16</sup>They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106017">17</sup>The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106018">18</sup>And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106019">19</sup>They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106020">20</sup>Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106021">21</sup>They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106022">22</sup>Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106023">23</sup>Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106024">24</sup>Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106025">25</sup>But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106026">26</sup>Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106027">27</sup>To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106028">28</sup>They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106029">29</sup>Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106030">30</sup>Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106031">31</sup>And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106032">32</sup>They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106033">33</sup>Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106034">34</sup>They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the <b>Lord</b> commanded them:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106035">35</sup>But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106036">36</sup>And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106037">37</sup>Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106038">38</sup>And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106039">39</sup>Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106040">40</sup>Therefore was the wrath of the <b>Lord</b> kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106041">41</sup>And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106042">42</sup>Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106043">43</sup>Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106044">44</sup>Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106045">45</sup>And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106046">46</sup>He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106047">47</sup>Save us, O <b>Lord</b> our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106048">48</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-107" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">107</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107002">2</sup>Let the redeemed of the <b>Lord</b> say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107003">3</sup>And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107004">4</sup>They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107005">5</sup>Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107006">6</sup>Then they cried unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107007">7</sup>And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107008">8</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107009">9</sup>For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107010">10</sup>Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107011">11</sup>Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107012">12</sup>Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107013">13</sup>Then they cried unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107014">14</sup>He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107015">15</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107016">16</sup>For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107017">17</sup>Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107018">18</sup>Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107019">19</sup>Then they cry unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107020">20</sup>He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107021">21</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107022">22</sup>And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107023">23</sup>They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107024">24</sup>These see the works of the <b>Lord</b>, and his wonders in the deep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107025">25</sup>For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107026">26</sup>They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107027">27</sup>They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107028">28</sup>Then they cry unto the <b>Lord</b> in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107029">29</sup>He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107030">30</sup>Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107031">31</sup>Oh that men would praise the <b>Lord</b> for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107032">32</sup>Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107033">33</sup>He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107034">34</sup>A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107035">35</sup>He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107036">36</sup>And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107037">37</sup>And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107038">38</sup>He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107039">39</sup>Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107040">40</sup>He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107041">41</sup>Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107042">42</sup>The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-107043">43</sup>Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-108" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">108</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108001">1</sup>O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108002">2</sup>Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108003">3</sup>I will praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108004">4</sup>For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108005">5</sup>Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108006">6</sup>That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108007">7</sup>God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108008">8</sup>Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108009">9</sup>Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108010">10</sup>Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108011">11</sup>Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108012">12</sup>Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-108013">13</sup>Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-109" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">109</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109001">1</sup>Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109002">2</sup>For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109003">3</sup>They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109004">4</sup>For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109005">5</sup>And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109006">6</sup>Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109007">7</sup>When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109008">8</sup>Let his days be few; and let another take his office.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109009">9</sup>Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109010">10</sup>Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109011">11</sup>Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109012">12</sup>Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109013">13</sup>Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109014">14</sup>Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the <b>Lord</b>; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109015">15</sup>Let them be before the <b>Lord</b> continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109016">16</sup>Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109017">17</sup>As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109018">18</sup>As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109019">19</sup>Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109020">20</sup>Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the <b>Lord</b>, and of them that speak evil against my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109021">21</sup>But do thou for me, O <b>God</b> the Lord, for thy name’s sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109022">22</sup>For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109023">23</sup>I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109024">24</sup>My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109025">25</sup>I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109026">26</sup>Help me, O <b>Lord</b> my God: O save me according to thy mercy:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109027">27</sup>That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast done it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109028">28</sup>Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109029">29</sup>Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109030">30</sup>I will greatly praise the <b>Lord</b> with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-109031">31</sup>For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-110" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">110</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110003">3</sup>Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110005">5</sup>The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110006">6</sup>He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-110007">7</sup>He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-111" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">111</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. I will praise the <b>Lord</b> with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111002">2</sup>The works of the <b>Lord</b> are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111003">3</sup>His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111004">4</sup>He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the <b>Lord</b> is gracious and full of compassion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111005">5</sup>He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111006">6</sup>He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111007">7</sup>The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111008">8</sup>They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111009">9</sup>He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-111010">10</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-112" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">112</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Blessed is the man that feareth the <b>Lord</b>, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112002">2</sup>His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112003">3</sup>Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112004">4</sup>Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112005">5</sup>A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112006">6</sup>Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112007">7</sup>He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112008">8</sup>His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112009">9</sup>He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-112010">10</sup>The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-113" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">113</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise, O ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>, praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113002">2</sup>Blessed be the name of the <b>Lord</b> from this time forth and for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113003">3</sup>From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the <b>Lord</b>’s name is to be praised.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113005">5</sup>Who is like unto the <b>Lord</b> our God, who dwelleth on high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113006">6</sup>Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113007">7</sup>He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113008">8</sup>That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-113009">9</sup>He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-114" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">114</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114001">1</sup>When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114002">2</sup>Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114003">3</sup>The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114004">4</sup>The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114005">5</sup>What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114006">6</sup>Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114007">7</sup>Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-114008">8</sup>Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-115" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">115</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115001">1</sup>Not unto us, O <b>Lord</b>, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth’s sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115002">2</sup>Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115003">3</sup>But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115004">4</sup>Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115005">5</sup>They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115006">6</sup>They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115007">7</sup>They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115008">8</sup>They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115009">9</sup>O Israel, trust thou in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115010">10</sup>O house of Aaron, trust in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115011">11</sup>Ye that fear the <b>Lord</b>, trust in the <b>Lord</b>: he is their help and their shield.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115012">12</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115013">13</sup>He will bless them that fear the <b>Lord</b>, both small and great.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall increase you more and more, you and your children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115015">15</sup>Ye are blessed of the <b>Lord</b> which made heaven and earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115016">16</sup>The heaven, even the heavens, are the <b>Lord</b>’s: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115017">17</sup>The dead praise not the <b>Lord</b>, neither any that go down into silence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-115018">18</sup>But we will bless the <b>Lord</b> from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-116" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">116</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116001">1</sup>I love the <b>Lord</b>, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116002">2</sup>Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116003">3</sup>The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116004">4</sup>Then called I upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>; O <b>Lord</b>, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116005">5</sup>Gracious is the <b>Lord</b>, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116007">7</sup>Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the <b>Lord</b> hath dealt bountifully with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116008">8</sup>For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116009">9</sup>I will walk before the <b>Lord</b> in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116010">10</sup>I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116011">11</sup>I said in my haste, All men are liars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116012">12</sup>What shall I render unto the <b>Lord</b> for all his benefits toward me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116013">13</sup>I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116014">14</sup>I will pay my vows unto the <b>Lord</b> now in the presence of all his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116015">15</sup>Precious in the sight of the <b>Lord</b> is the death of his saints.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116016">16</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116017">17</sup>I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116018">18</sup>I will pay my vows unto the <b>Lord</b> now in the presence of all his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-116019">19</sup>In the courts of the <b>Lord</b>’s house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-117" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">117</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-117001">1</sup>O praise the <b>Lord</b>, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-117002">2</sup>For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the <b>Lord</b> endureth for ever. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-118" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">118</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118002">2</sup>Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118003">3</sup>Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118004">4</sup>Let them now that fear the <b>Lord</b> say, that his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118005">5</sup>I called upon the <b>Lord</b> in distress: the <b>Lord</b> answered me, and set me in a large place.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118008">8</sup>It is better to trust in the <b>Lord</b> than to put confidence in man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118009">9</sup>It is better to trust in the <b>Lord</b> than to put confidence in princes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118010">10</sup>All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the <b>Lord</b> will I destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118011">11</sup>They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the <b>Lord</b> I will destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118012">12</sup>They compassed me about like bees: they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the <b>Lord</b> I will destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118013">13</sup>Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the <b>Lord</b> helped me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118015">15</sup>The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the <b>Lord</b> doeth valiantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118016">16</sup>The right hand of the <b>Lord</b> is exalted: the right hand of the <b>Lord</b> doeth valiantly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118017">17</sup>I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118019">19</sup>Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the <b>Lord</b>:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118020">20</sup>This gate of the <b>Lord</b>, into which the righteous shall enter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118021">21</sup>I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118022">22</sup>The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118023">23</sup>This is the <b>Lord</b>’s doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118024">24</sup>This is the day which the <b>Lord</b> hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118025">25</sup>Save now, I beseech thee, O <b>Lord</b>: O <b>Lord</b>, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118026">26</sup>Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the <b>Lord</b>: we have blessed you out of the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118027">27</sup>God is the <b>Lord</b>, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118028">28</sup>Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-118029">29</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-119" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">119</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119001">1</sup>Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119002">2</sup>Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119003">3</sup>They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119004">4</sup>Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119005">5</sup>O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119006">6</sup>Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119007">7</sup>I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119008">8</sup>I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119009">9</sup>Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119010">10</sup>With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119011">11</sup>Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119012">12</sup>Blessed art thou, O <b>Lord</b>: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119013">13</sup>With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119014">14</sup>I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119015">15</sup>I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119016">16</sup>I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119017">17</sup>Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119018">18</sup>Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119019">19</sup>I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119020">20</sup>My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119021">21</sup>Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119022">22</sup>Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119023">23</sup>Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119024">24</sup>Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119025">25</sup>My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119026">26</sup>I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119027">27</sup>Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119028">28</sup>My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119029">29</sup>Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119030">30</sup>I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid before me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119031">31</sup>I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O <b>Lord</b>, put me not to shame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119032">32</sup>I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119033">33</sup>Teach me, O <b>Lord</b>, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119034">34</sup>Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119035">35</sup>Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119036">36</sup>Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119037">37</sup>Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119038">38</sup>Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119039">39</sup>Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119040">40</sup>Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119041">41</sup>Let thy mercies come also unto me, O <b>Lord</b>, even thy salvation, according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119042">42</sup>So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119043">43</sup>And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119044">44</sup>So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119045">45</sup>And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119046">46</sup>I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119047">47</sup>And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119048">48</sup>My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119049">49</sup>Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119050">50</sup>This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119051">51</sup>The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119052">52</sup>I remembered thy judgments of old, O <b>Lord</b>; and have comforted myself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119053">53</sup>Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119054">54</sup>Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119055">55</sup>I have remembered thy name, O <b>Lord</b>, in the night, and have kept thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119056">56</sup>This I had, because I kept thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119057">57</sup>Thou art my portion, O <b>Lord</b>: I have said that I would keep thy words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119058">58</sup>I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119059">59</sup>I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119060">60</sup>I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119061">61</sup>The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119062">62</sup>At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119063">63</sup>I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119064">64</sup>The earth, O <b>Lord</b>, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119065">65</sup>Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O <b>Lord</b>, according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119066">66</sup>Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119067">67</sup>Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119068">68</sup>Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119069">69</sup>The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119070">70</sup>Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119071">71</sup>It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119072">72</sup>The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119073">73</sup>Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119074">74</sup>They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119075">75</sup>I know, O <b>Lord</b>, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119076">76</sup>Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119077">77</sup>Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119078">78</sup>Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119079">79</sup>Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119080">80</sup>Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119081">81</sup>My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119082">82</sup>Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119083">83</sup>For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119084">84</sup>How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119085">85</sup>The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119086">86</sup>All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119087">87</sup>They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119088">88</sup>Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119089">89</sup>For ever, O <b>Lord</b>, thy word is settled in heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119090">90</sup>Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119091">91</sup>They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119092">92</sup>Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119093">93</sup>I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119094">94</sup>I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119095">95</sup>The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119096">96</sup>I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceeding broad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119097">97</sup>O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119098">98</sup>Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119099">99</sup>I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119100">100</sup>I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119101">101</sup>I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119102">102</sup>I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119103">103</sup>How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119104">104</sup>Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119105">105</sup>Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119106">106</sup>I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119107">107</sup>I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, according unto thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119108">108</sup>Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O <b>Lord</b>, and teach me thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119109">109</sup>My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119110">110</sup>The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119111">111</sup>Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119112">112</sup>I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119113">113</sup>I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119114">114</sup>Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119115">115</sup>Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119116">116</sup>Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119117">117</sup>Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119118">118</sup>Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119119">119</sup>Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119120">120</sup>My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119121">121</sup>I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119122">122</sup>Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119123">123</sup>Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119124">124</sup>Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119125">125</sup>I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119126">126</sup>It is time for thee, <b>Lord</b>, to work: for they have made void thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119127">127</sup>Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119128">128</sup>Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119129">129</sup>Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119130">130</sup>The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119131">131</sup>I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119132">132</sup>Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119133">133</sup>Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119134">134</sup>Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119135">135</sup>Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119136">136</sup>Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119137">137</sup>Righteous art thou, O <b>Lord</b>, and upright are thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119138">138</sup>Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119139">139</sup>My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119140">140</sup>Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119141">141</sup>I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119142">142</sup>Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119143">143</sup>Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119144">144</sup>The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119145">145</sup>I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O <b>Lord</b>: I will keep thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119146">146</sup>I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119147">147</sup>I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119148">148</sup>Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119149">149</sup>Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O <b>Lord</b>, quicken me according to thy judgment.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119150">150</sup>They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119151">151</sup>Thou art near, O <b>Lord</b>; and all thy commandments are truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119152">152</sup>Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119153">153</sup>Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119154">154</sup>Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119155">155</sup>Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119156">156</sup>Great are thy tender mercies, O <b>Lord</b>: quicken me according to thy judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119157">157</sup>Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119158">158</sup>I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119159">159</sup>Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, according to thy lovingkindness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119160">160</sup>Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119161">161</sup>Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119162">162</sup>I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119163">163</sup>I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119164">164</sup>Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119165">165</sup>Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119166">166</sup><b>Lord</b>, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119167">167</sup>My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119168">168</sup>I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119169">169</sup>Let my cry come near before thee, O <b>Lord</b>: give me understanding according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119170">170</sup>Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119171">171</sup>My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119172">172</sup>My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119173">173</sup>Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119174">174</sup>I have longed for thy salvation, O <b>Lord</b>; and thy law is my delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119175">175</sup>Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-119176">176</sup>I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-120" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">120</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120001">1</sup>In my distress I cried unto the <b>Lord</b>, and he heard me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120002">2</sup>Deliver my soul, O <b>Lord</b>, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120003">3</sup>What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120004">4</sup>Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120005">5</sup>Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120006">6</sup>My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-120007">7</sup>I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-121" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">121</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121001">1</sup>I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121002">2</sup>My help cometh from the <b>Lord</b>, which made heaven and earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121003">3</sup>He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121004">4</sup>Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is thy keeper: the <b>Lord</b> is thy shade upon thy right hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121006">6</sup>The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-121008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-122" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">122</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122001">1</sup>I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122002">2</sup>Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122003">3</sup>Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122004">4</sup>Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the <b>Lord</b>, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122005">5</sup>For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122006">6</sup>Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122007">7</sup>Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122008">8</sup>For my brethren and companions’ sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-122009">9</sup>Because of the house of the <b>Lord</b> our God I will seek thy good.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-123" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">123</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123001">1</sup>Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123002">2</sup>Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the <b>Lord</b> our God, until that he have mercy upon us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123003">3</sup>Have mercy upon us, O <b>Lord</b>, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-123004">4</sup>Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-124" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">124</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124001">1</sup>If it had not been the <b>Lord</b> who was on our side, now may Israel say;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124002">2</sup>If it had not been the <b>Lord</b> who was on our side, when men rose up against us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124003">3</sup>Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124004">4</sup>Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124005">5</sup>Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124006">6</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b>, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124007">7</sup>Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-124008">8</sup>Our help is in the name of the <b>Lord</b>, who made heaven and earth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-125" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">125</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125001">1</sup>They that trust in the <b>Lord</b> shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125002">2</sup>As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the <b>Lord</b> is round about his people from henceforth even for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125003">3</sup>For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125004">4</sup>Do good, O <b>Lord</b>, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-125005">5</sup>As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the <b>Lord</b> shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-126" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">126</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126001">1</sup>When the <b>Lord</b> turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126002">2</sup>Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The <b>Lord</b> hath done great things for them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126004">4</sup>Turn again our captivity, O <b>Lord</b>, as the streams in the south.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126005">5</sup>They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-126006">6</sup>He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-127" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">127</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127001">1</sup>Except the <b>Lord</b> build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the <b>Lord</b> keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127002">2</sup>It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127003">3</sup>Lo, children are an heritage of the <b>Lord</b>: and the fruit of the womb is his reward.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127004">4</sup>As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-127005">5</sup>Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-128" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">128</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128001">1</sup>Blessed is every one that feareth the <b>Lord</b>; that walketh in his ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128002">2</sup>For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128003">3</sup>Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128004">4</sup>Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-128006">6</sup>Yea, thou shalt see thy children’s children, and peace upon Israel.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-129" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">129</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129001">1</sup>Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129002">2</sup>Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129003">3</sup>The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129005">5</sup>Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129006">6</sup>Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129007">7</sup>Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-129008">8</sup>Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the <b>Lord</b> be upon you: we bless you in the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-130" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">130</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130001">1</sup>Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130002">2</sup>Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130003">3</sup>If thou, <b>Lord</b>, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130004">4</sup>But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130005">5</sup>I wait for the <b>Lord</b>, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130006">6</sup>My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130007">7</sup>Let Israel hope in the <b>Lord</b>: for with the <b>Lord</b> there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-130008">8</sup>And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-131" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">131</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131001">1</sup>Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131002">2</sup>Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-131003">3</sup>Let Israel hope in the <b>Lord</b> from henceforth and for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-132" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">132</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132001">1</sup>Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132002">2</sup>How he sware unto the <b>Lord</b>, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132003">3</sup>Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132004">4</sup>I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132005">5</sup>Until I find out a place for the <b>Lord</b>, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132006">6</sup>Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132007">7</sup>We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132008">8</sup>Arise, O <b>Lord</b>, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132009">9</sup>Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132010">10</sup>For thy servant David’s sake turn not away the face of thine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132012">12</sup>If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132013">13</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132014">14</sup>This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132015">15</sup>I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132016">16</sup>I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132017">17</sup>There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-132018">18</sup>His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-133" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">133</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133001">1</sup>Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133002">2</sup>It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-133003">3</sup>As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the <b>Lord</b> commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-134" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">134</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134001">1</sup>Behold, bless ye the <b>Lord</b>, all ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>, which by night stand in the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134002">2</sup>Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-134003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-135" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">135</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the name of the <b>Lord</b>; praise him, O ye servants of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135002">2</sup>Ye that stand in the house of the <b>Lord</b>, in the courts of the house of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135003">3</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b>; for the <b>Lord</b> is good: sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135005">5</sup>For I know that the <b>Lord</b> is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135006">6</sup>Whatsoever the <b>Lord</b> pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135007">7</sup>He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135008">8</sup>Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135009">9</sup>Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135010">10</sup>Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135011">11</sup>Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135012">12</sup>And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135013">13</sup>Thy name, O <b>Lord</b>, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O <b>Lord</b>, throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135014">14</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135015">15</sup>The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135016">16</sup>They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135017">17</sup>They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135018">18</sup>They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that trusteth in them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135019">19</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Israel: bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Aaron:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135020">20</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O house of Levi: ye that fear the <b>Lord</b>, bless the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-135021">21</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-136" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">136</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136002">2</sup>O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136003">3</sup>O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136004">4</sup>To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136005">5</sup>To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136006">6</sup>To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136007">7</sup>To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136008">8</sup>The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136009">9</sup>The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136010">10</sup>To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136011">11</sup>And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136012">12</sup>With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136013">13</sup>To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136014">14</sup>And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136015">15</sup>But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136016">16</sup>To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136017">17</sup>To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136018">18</sup>And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136019">19</sup>Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136020">20</sup>And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136021">21</sup>And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136022">22</sup>Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136023">23</sup>Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136024">24</sup>And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136025">25</sup>Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-136026">26</sup>O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-137" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">137</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137001">1</sup>By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137002">2</sup>We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137003">3</sup>For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137004">4</sup>How shall we sing the <b>Lord</b>’s song in a strange land?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137005">5</sup>If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137006">6</sup>If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137007">7</sup>Remember, O <b>Lord</b>, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137008">8</sup>O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-137009">9</sup>Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-138" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">138</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138001">1</sup>I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138002">2</sup>I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138003">3</sup>In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138004">4</sup>All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>, when they hear the words of thy mouth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138005">5</sup>Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the <b>Lord</b>: for great is the glory of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138006">6</sup>Though the <b>Lord</b> be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138007">7</sup>Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-138008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-139" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">139</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139001">1</sup>O lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139002">2</sup>Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139003">3</sup>Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139004">4</sup>For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O <b>Lord</b>, thou knowest it altogether.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139005">5</sup>Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139006">6</sup>Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139007">7</sup>Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139008">8</sup>If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139009">9</sup>If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139010">10</sup>Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139011">11</sup>If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139012">12</sup>Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139013">13</sup>For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother’s womb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139014">14</sup>I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139015">15</sup>My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139016">16</sup>Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139017">17</sup>How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139018">18</sup>If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139019">19</sup>Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139020">20</sup>For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139021">21</sup>Do not I hate them, O <b>Lord</b>, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139022">22</sup>I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139023">23</sup>Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-139024">24</sup>And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-140" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">140</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140001">1</sup>Deliver me, O <b>Lord</b>, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140002">2</sup>Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140003">3</sup>They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their lips. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140004">4</sup>Keep me, O <b>Lord</b>, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140005">5</sup>The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140006">6</sup>I said unto the <b>Lord</b>, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140007">7</sup>O <b>God</b> the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140008">8</sup>Grant not, O <b>Lord</b>, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140009">9</sup>As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140010">10</sup>Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140011">11</sup>Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140012">12</sup>I know that the <b>Lord</b> will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-140013">13</sup>Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-141" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">141</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141001">1</sup>Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141002">2</sup>Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141003">3</sup>Set a watch, O <b>Lord</b>, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141004">4</sup>Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141005">5</sup>Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141006">6</sup>When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141007">7</sup>Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141008">8</sup>But mine eyes are unto thee, O <b>God</b> the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141009">9</sup>Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-141010">10</sup>Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-142" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">142</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142001">1</sup>I cried unto the <b>Lord</b> with my voice; with my voice unto the <b>Lord</b> did I make my supplication.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142002">2</sup>I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142003">3</sup>When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142004">4</sup>I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142005">5</sup>I cried unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142006">6</sup>Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-142007">7</sup>Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-143" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">143</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143001">1</sup>Hear my prayer, O <b>Lord</b>, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143002">2</sup>And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143003">3</sup>For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143004">4</sup>Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143005">5</sup>I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143006">6</sup>I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after thee, as a thirsty land. Selah.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143007">7</sup>Hear me speedily, O <b>Lord</b>: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143008">8</sup>Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143009">9</sup>Deliver me, O <b>Lord</b>, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143010">10</sup>Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143011">11</sup>Quicken me, O <b>Lord</b>, for thy name’s sake: for thy righteousness’ sake bring my soul out of trouble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-143012">12</sup>And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-144" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">144</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144001">1</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> my strength which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144002">2</sup>My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144003">3</sup><b>Lord</b>, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son of man, that thou makest account of him!</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144004">4</sup>Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144005">5</sup>Bow thy heavens, O <b>Lord</b>, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144006">6</sup>Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144007">7</sup>Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144008">8</sup>Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144009">9</sup>I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144010">10</sup>It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144011">11</sup>Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144012">12</sup>That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144013">13</sup>That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144014">14</sup>That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-144015">15</sup>Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people, whose God is the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-145" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">145</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145001">1</sup>I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145002">2</sup>Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145003">3</sup>Great is the <b>Lord</b>, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145004">4</sup>One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145005">5</sup>I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145006">6</sup>And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145007">7</sup>They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145010">10</sup>All thy works shall praise thee, O <b>Lord</b>; and thy saints shall bless thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145011">11</sup>They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145012">12</sup>To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145013">13</sup>Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145015">15</sup>The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145016">16</sup>Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145017">17</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145018">18</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145019">19</sup>He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145020">20</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-145021">21</sup>My mouth shall speak the praise of the <b>Lord</b>: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-146" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">146</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146002">2</sup>While I live will I praise the <b>Lord</b>: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146003">3</sup>Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146004">4</sup>His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146005">5</sup>Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the <b>Lord</b> his God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146006">6</sup>Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146007">7</sup>Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The <b>Lord</b> looseth the prisoners:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> openeth the eyes of the blind: the <b>Lord</b> raiseth them that are bowed down: the <b>Lord</b> loveth the righteous:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-146010">10</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-147" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">147</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147003">3</sup>He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147004">4</sup>He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147005">5</sup>Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147007">7</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147008">8</sup>Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147009">9</sup>He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147010">10</sup>He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147012">12</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b>, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147013">13</sup>For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147014">14</sup>He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147015">15</sup>He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147016">16</sup>He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147017">17</sup>He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147018">18</sup>He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147019">19</sup>He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-147020">20</sup>He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-148" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">148</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b> from the heavens: praise him in the heights.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148002">2</sup>Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148003">3</sup>Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148004">4</sup>Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148005">5</sup>Let them praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>: for he commanded, and they were created.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148006">6</sup>He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148007">7</sup>Praise the <b>Lord</b> from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148008">8</sup>Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148009">9</sup>Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148010">10</sup>Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148011">11</sup>Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148012">12</sup>Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148013">13</sup>Let them praise the name of the <b>Lord</b>: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-148014">14</sup>He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-149" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">149</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149002">2</sup>Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149003">3</sup>Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149005">5</sup>Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149006">6</sup>Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149007">7</sup>To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149008">8</sup>To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-149009">9</sup>To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-150" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h6>
						<span epub:type="label">Psalm</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">150</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150002">2</sup>Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150003">3</sup>Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150004">4</sup>Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150005">5</sup>Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-150006">6</sup>Let every thing that hath breath praise the <b>Lord</b>. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
