<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Philemon</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="new-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-57" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Philemon</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Philemon</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>Yet for love’s sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001016">16</sup>Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001017">17</sup>If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001018">18</sup>If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001019">19</sup>I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001020">20</sup>Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001021">21</sup>Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001022">22</sup>But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001023">23</sup>There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001024">24</sup>Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001025">25</sup>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
