<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-48" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Book 48 Galatians</h2>
			<p>48:001:001 Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;)</p>
			<p>48:001:002 And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia:</p>
			<p>48:001:003 Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>
			<p>48:001:004 Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father:</p>
			<p>48:001:005 To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.</p>
			<p>48:001:006 I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel:</p>
			<p>48:001:007 Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.</p>
			<p>48:001:008 But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed.</p>
			<p>48:001:009 As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.</p>
			<p>48:001:010 For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.</p>
			<p>48:001:011 But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man.</p>
			<p>48:001:012 For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.</p>
			<p>48:001:013 For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it:</p>
			<p>48:001:014 And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.</p>
			<p>48:001:015 But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace,</p>
			<p>48:001:016 To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood:</p>
			<p>48:001:017 Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus.</p>
			<p>48:001:018 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days.</p>
			<p>48:001:019 But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother.</p>
			<p>48:001:020 Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie not.</p>
			<p>48:001:021 Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;</p>
			<p>48:001:022 And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ:</p>
			<p>48:001:023 But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.</p>
			<p>48:001:024 And they glorified God in me.</p>
			<p>48:002:001 Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also.</p>
			<p>48:002:002 And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in vain.</p>
			<p>48:002:003 But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised:</p>
			<p>48:002:004 And that because of false brethren unawares brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:</p>
			<p>48:002:005 To whom we gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.</p>
			<p>48:002:006 But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person:) for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me:</p>
			<p>48:002:007 But contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter;</p>
			<p>48:002:008 (For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles:)</p>
			<p>48:002:009 And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and they unto the circumcision.</p>
			<p>48:002:010 Only they would that we should remember the poor; the same which I also was forward to do.</p>
			<p>48:002:011 But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed.</p>
			<p>48:002:012 For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision.</p>
			<p>48:002:013 And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation.</p>
			<p>48:002:014 But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?</p>
			<p>48:002:015 We who are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles,</p>
			<p>48:002:016 Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.</p>
			<p>48:002:017 But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God forbid.</p>
			<p>48:002:018 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.</p>
			<p>48:002:019 For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God.</p>
			<p>48:002:020 I am crucified with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.</p>
			<p>48:002:021 I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.</p>
			<p>48:003:001 O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you?</p>
			<p>48:003:002 This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?</p>
			<p>48:003:003 Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh?</p>
			<p>48:003:004 Have ye suffered so many things in vain? if it be yet in vain.</p>
			<p>48:003:005 He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?</p>
			<p>48:003:006 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.</p>
			<p>48:003:007 Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.</p>
			<p>48:003:008 And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed.</p>
			<p>48:003:009 So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.</p>
			<p>48:003:010 For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them.</p>
			<p>48:003:011 But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.</p>
			<p>48:003:012 And the law is not of faith: but, The man that doeth them shall live in them.</p>
			<p>48:003:013 Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree:</p>
			<p>48:003:014 That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.</p>
			<p>48:003:015 Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth thereto.</p>
			<p>48:003:016 Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ.</p>
			<p>48:003:017 And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect.</p>
			<p>48:003:018 For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise: but God gave it to Abraham by promise.</p>
			<p>48:003:019 Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.</p>
			<p>48:003:020 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.</p>
			<p>48:003:021 Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law.</p>
			<p>48:003:022 But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.</p>
			<p>48:003:023 But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.</p>
			<p>48:003:024 Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith.</p>
			<p>48:003:025 But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.</p>
			<p>48:003:026 For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.</p>
			<p>48:003:027 For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.</p>
			<p>48:003:028 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.</p>
			<p>48:003:029 And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.</p>
			<p>48:004:001 Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all;</p>
			<p>48:004:002 But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father.</p>
			<p>48:004:003 Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world:</p>
			<p>48:004:004 But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law,</p>
			<p>48:004:005 To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.</p>
			<p>48:004:006 And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.</p>
			<p>48:004:007 Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.</p>
			<p>48:004:008 Howbeit then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods.</p>
			<p>48:004:009 But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage?</p>
			<p>48:004:010 Ye observe days, and months, and times, and years.</p>
			<p>48:004:011 I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.</p>
			<p>48:004:012 Brethren, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as ye are: ye have not injured me at all.</p>
			<p>48:004:013 Ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel unto you at the first.</p>
			<p>48:004:014 And my temptation which was in my flesh ye despised not, nor rejected; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.</p>
			<p>48:004:015 Where is then the blessedness ye spake of? for I bear you record, that, if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own eyes, and have given them to me.</p>
			<p>48:004:016 Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?</p>
			<p>48:004:017 They zealously affect you, but not well; yea, they would exclude you, that ye might affect them.</p>
			<p>48:004:018 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.</p>
			<p>48:004:019 My little children, of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you,</p>
			<p>48:004:020 I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.</p>
			<p>48:004:021 Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law?</p>
			<p>48:004:022 For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a freewoman.</p>
			<p>48:004:023 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he of the freewoman was by promise.</p>
			<p>48:004:024 Which things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar.</p>
			<p>48:004:025 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children.</p>
			<p>48:004:026 But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all.</p>
			<p>48:004:027 For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry, thou that travailest not: for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an husband.</p>
			<p>48:004:028 Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.</p>
			<p>48:004:029 But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, even so it is now.</p>
			<p>48:004:030 Nevertheless what saith the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman.</p>
			<p>48:004:031 So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of the free.</p>
			<p>48:005:001 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.</p>
			<p>48:005:002 Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.</p>
			<p>48:005:003 For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.</p>
			<p>48:005:004 Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.</p>
			<p>48:005:005 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.</p>
			<p>48:005:006 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love.</p>
			<p>48:005:007 Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth?</p>
			<p>48:005:008 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you.</p>
			<p>48:005:009 A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.</p>
			<p>48:005:010 I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be.</p>
			<p>48:005:011 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.</p>
			<p>48:005:012 I would they were even cut off which trouble you.</p>
			<p>48:005:013 For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another.</p>
			<p>48:005:014 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.</p>
			<p>48:005:015 But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another.</p>
			<p>48:005:016 This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh.</p>
			<p>48:005:017 For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.</p>
			<p>48:005:018 But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.</p>
			<p>48:005:019 Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,</p>
			<p>48:005:020 Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,</p>
			<p>48:005:021 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.</p>
			<p>48:005:022 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,</p>
			<p>48:005:023 Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.</p>
			<p>48:005:024 And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.</p>
			<p>48:005:025 If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.</p>
			<p>48:005:026 Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.</p>
			<p>48:006:001 Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.</p>
			<p>48:006:002 Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.</p>
			<p>48:006:003 For if a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself.</p>
			<p>48:006:004 But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.</p>
			<p>48:006:005 For every man shall bear his own burden.</p>
			<p>48:006:006 Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things.</p>
			<p>48:006:007 Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.</p>
			<p>48:006:008 For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting.</p>
			<p>48:006:009 And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.</p>
			<p>48:006:010 As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith.</p>
			<p>48:006:011 Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand.</p>
			<p>48:006:012 As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ.</p>
			<p>48:006:013 For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.</p>
			<p>48:006:014 But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world.</p>
			<p>48:006:015 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.</p>
			<p>48:006:016 And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.</p>
			<p>48:006:017 From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.</p>
			<p>48:006:018 Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
