<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Psalms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-19" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Fourth Book of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Psalms</p>
				</header>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-90" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XC</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090001">1</sup>Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090002">2</sup>Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090003">3</sup>Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090004">4</sup>For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090005">5</sup>Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090006">6</sup>In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090007">7</sup>For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090008">8</sup>Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090009">9</sup>For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090010">10</sup>The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090011">11</sup>Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090012">12</sup>So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090013">13</sup>Return, O <b>Lord</b>, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090014">14</sup>O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090015">15</sup>Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090016">16</sup>Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-090017">17</sup>And let the beauty of the <b>Lord</b> our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-91" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091001">1</sup>He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091002">2</sup>I will say of the <b>Lord</b>, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091003">3</sup>Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091004">4</sup>He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091005">5</sup>Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091006">6</sup>Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091007">7</sup>A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091008">8</sup>Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091009">9</sup>Because thou hast made the <b>Lord</b>, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091010">10</sup>There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091011">11</sup>For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091012">12</sup>They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091013">13</sup>Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091014">14</sup>Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091015">15</sup>He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-091016">16</sup>With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-92" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092001">1</sup>It is a good thing to gives thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092002">2</sup>To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092003">3</sup>Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092004">4</sup>For thou, <b>Lord</b>, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092005">5</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092006">6</sup>A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092007">7</sup>When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092008">8</sup>But thou, <b>Lord</b>, art most high for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092009">9</sup>For, lo, thine enemies, O <b>Lord</b>, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092010">10</sup>But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092011">11</sup>Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092012">12</sup>The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092013">13</sup>Those that be planted in the house of the <b>Lord</b> shall flourish in the courts of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092014">14</sup>They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-092015">15</sup>To shew that the <b>Lord</b> is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-93" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the <b>Lord</b> is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093002">2</sup>Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093003">3</sup>The floods have lifted up, O <b>Lord</b>, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-093005">5</sup>Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O <b>Lord</b>, for ever.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-94" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094001">1</sup>O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094002">2</sup>Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094003">3</sup><b>Lord</b>, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094004">4</sup>How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094005">5</sup>They break in pieces thy people, O <b>Lord</b>, and afflict thine heritage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094006">6</sup>They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094007">7</sup>Yet they say, The <b>Lord</b> shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094008">8</sup>Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094009">9</sup>He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094010">10</sup>He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094011">11</sup>The <b>Lord</b> knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094012">12</sup>Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O <b>Lord</b>, and teachest him out of thy law;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094013">13</sup>That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094014">14</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094015">15</sup>But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094016">16</sup>Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094017">17</sup>Unless the <b>Lord</b> had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094018">18</sup>When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O <b>Lord</b>, held me up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094019">19</sup>In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094020">20</sup>Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094021">21</sup>They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094022">22</sup>But the <b>Lord</b> is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-094023">23</sup>And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the <b>Lord</b> our God shall cut them off.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-95" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095001">1</sup>O come, let us sing unto the <b>Lord</b>: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095002">2</sup>Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095003">3</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is a great God, and a great King above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095004">4</sup>In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095005">5</sup>The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095006">6</sup>O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the <b>Lord</b> our maker.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095007">7</sup>For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095008">8</sup>Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095009">9</sup>When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095010">10</sup>Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-095011">11</sup>Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-96" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096001">1</sup>O sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song: sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096002">2</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b>, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096003">3</sup>Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096004">4</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096005">5</sup>For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the <b>Lord</b> made the heavens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096006">6</sup>Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096007">7</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b>, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the <b>Lord</b> glory and strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096008">8</sup>Give unto the <b>Lord</b> the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096009">9</sup>O worship the <b>Lord</b> in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096010">10</sup>Say among the heathen that the <b>Lord</b> reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096011">11</sup>Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096012">12</sup>Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-096013">13</sup>Before the <b>Lord</b>: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-97" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097002">2</sup>Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097003">3</sup>A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097004">4</sup>His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097005">5</sup>The hills melted like wax at the presence of the <b>Lord</b>, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097006">6</sup>The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097007">7</sup>Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097008">8</sup>Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097009">9</sup>For thou, <b>Lord</b>, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097010">10</sup>Ye that love the <b>Lord</b>, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097011">11</sup>Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-097012">12</sup>Rejoice in the <b>Lord</b>, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-98" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098001">1</sup>O sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098003">3</sup>He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098004">4</sup>Make a joyful noise unto the <b>Lord</b>, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098005">5</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098006">6</sup>With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the <b>Lord</b>, the King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098007">7</sup>Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098008">8</sup>Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-098009">9</sup>Before the <b>Lord</b>; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-99" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099001">1</sup>The <b>Lord</b> reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099002">2</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099003">3</sup>Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099004">4</sup>The king’s strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099005">5</sup>Exalt ye the <b>Lord</b> our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099006">6</sup>Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon the <b>Lord</b>, and he answered them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099007">7</sup>He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099008">8</sup>Thou answeredst them, O <b>Lord</b> our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-099009">9</sup>Exalt the <b>Lord</b> our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the <b>Lord</b> our God is holy.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-100" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">C</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100001">1</sup>Make a joyful noise unto the <b>Lord</b>, all ye lands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100002">2</sup>Serve the <b>Lord</b> with gladness: come before his presence with singing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100003">3</sup>Know ye that the <b>Lord</b> he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100004">4</sup>Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-100005">5</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-101" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101001">1</sup>I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O <b>Lord</b>, will I sing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101002">2</sup>I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101003">3</sup>I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101004">4</sup>A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101005">5</sup>Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101006">6</sup>Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101007">7</sup>He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-101008">8</sup>I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-102" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102001">1</sup>Hear my prayer, O <b>Lord</b>, and let my cry come unto thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102002">2</sup>Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102003">3</sup>For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102004">4</sup>My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102005">5</sup>By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102006">6</sup>I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102007">7</sup>I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102008">8</sup>Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102009">9</sup>For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102010">10</sup>Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102011">11</sup>My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102012">12</sup>But thou, O <b>Lord</b>, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102013">13</sup>Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102014">14</sup>For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102015">15</sup>So the heathen shall fear the name of the <b>Lord</b>, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102016">16</sup>When the <b>Lord</b> shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102017">17</sup>He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102018">18</sup>This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102019">19</sup>For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the <b>Lord</b> behold the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102020">20</sup>To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102021">21</sup>To declare the name of the <b>Lord</b> in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102022">22</sup>When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102023">23</sup>He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102024">24</sup>I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102025">25</sup>Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102026">26</sup>They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102027">27</sup>But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-102028">28</sup>The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-103" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103001">1</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103002">2</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103003">3</sup>Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103004">4</sup>Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103005">5</sup>Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle’s.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103006">6</sup>The <b>Lord</b> executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103007">7</sup>He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103009">9</sup>He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103010">10</sup>He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103011">11</sup>For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103012">12</sup>As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103013">13</sup>Like as a father pitieth his children, so the <b>Lord</b> pitieth them that fear him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103014">14</sup>For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103015">15</sup>As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103016">16</sup>For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103017">17</sup>But the mercy of the <b>Lord</b> is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103018">18</sup>To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103019">19</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103020">20</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103021">21</sup>Bless ye the <b>Lord</b>, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-103022">22</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-104" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104001">1</sup>Bless the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul. O <b>Lord</b> my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104002">2</sup>Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104003">3</sup>Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104004">4</sup>Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104005">5</sup>Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104006">6</sup>Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104007">7</sup>At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104008">8</sup>They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104009">9</sup>Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104010">10</sup>He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104011">11</sup>They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104012">12</sup>By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104013">13</sup>He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104014">14</sup>He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104015">15</sup>And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man’s heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104016">16</sup>The trees of the <b>Lord</b> are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104017">17</sup>Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104018">18</sup>The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104019">19</sup>He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104020">20</sup>Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104021">21</sup>The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104022">22</sup>The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104023">23</sup>Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104024">24</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104025">25</sup>So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104026">26</sup>There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104027">27</sup>These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104028">28</sup>That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104029">29</sup>Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104030">30</sup>Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104031">31</sup>The glory of the <b>Lord</b> shall endure for ever: the <b>Lord</b> shall rejoice in his works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104032">32</sup>He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104033">33</sup>I will sing unto the <b>Lord</b> as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104034">34</sup>My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-104035">35</sup>Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the <b>Lord</b>, O my soul. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-105" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CV</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105001">1</sup>O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105002">2</sup>Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105003">3</sup>Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105004">4</sup>Seek the <b>Lord</b>, and his strength: seek his face evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105005">5</sup>Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105006">6</sup>O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105007">7</sup>He is the <b>Lord</b> our God: his judgments are in all the earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105008">8</sup>He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105009">9</sup>Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105010">10</sup>And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105011">11</sup>Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105012">12</sup>When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105013">13</sup>When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105014">14</sup>He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105015">15</sup>Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105016">16</sup>Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105017">17</sup>He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105018">18</sup>Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105019">19</sup>Until the time that his word came: the word of the <b>Lord</b> tried him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105020">20</sup>The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105021">21</sup>He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105022">22</sup>To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105023">23</sup>Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105024">24</sup>And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105025">25</sup>He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105026">26</sup>He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105027">27</sup>They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105028">28</sup>He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105029">29</sup>He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105030">30</sup>Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105031">31</sup>He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105032">32</sup>He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105033">33</sup>He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105034">34</sup>He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105035">35</sup>And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105036">36</sup>He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105037">37</sup>He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105038">38</sup>Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105039">39</sup>He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105040">40</sup>The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105041">41</sup>He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105042">42</sup>For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105043">43</sup>And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105044">44</sup>And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-105045">45</sup>That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article class="epub-type-z3998-hymn" id="psalm-106" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106001">1</sup>Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>. O give thanks unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106002">2</sup>Who can utter the mighty acts of the <b>Lord</b>? who can shew forth all his praise?</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106003">3</sup>Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106004">4</sup>Remember me, O <b>Lord</b>, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106005">5</sup>That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106006">6</sup>We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106007">7</sup>Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106008">8</sup>Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106009">9</sup>He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106010">10</sup>And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106011">11</sup>And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106012">12</sup>Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106013">13</sup>They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106014">14</sup>But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106015">15</sup>And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106016">16</sup>They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106017">17</sup>The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106018">18</sup>And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106019">19</sup>They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106020">20</sup>Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106021">21</sup>They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt;</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106022">22</sup>Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106023">23</sup>Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106024">24</sup>Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106025">25</sup>But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106026">26</sup>Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106027">27</sup>To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106028">28</sup>They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106029">29</sup>Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106030">30</sup>Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106031">31</sup>And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106032">32</sup>They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106033">33</sup>Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106034">34</sup>They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the <b>Lord</b> commanded them:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106035">35</sup>But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106036">36</sup>And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106037">37</sup>Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106038">38</sup>And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106039">39</sup>Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106040">40</sup>Therefore was the wrath of the <b>Lord</b> kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106041">41</sup>And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106042">42</sup>Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106043">43</sup>Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106044">44</sup>Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106045">45</sup>And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106046">46</sup>He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106047">47</sup>Save us, O <b>Lord</b> our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-106048">48</sup>Blessed be the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the <b>Lord</b>.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
