<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Proverbs</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-20" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Proverbs</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Book of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Proverbs</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001016">16</sup>For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001017">17</sup>Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001018">18</sup>And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001019">19</sup>So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001020">20</sup>Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001021">21</sup>She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001022">22</sup>How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001023">23</sup>Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001024">24</sup>Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001025">25</sup>But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001026">26</sup>I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001027">27</sup>When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001028">28</sup>Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001029">29</sup>For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the <b>Lord</b>:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001030">30</sup>They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001031">31</sup>Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001032">32</sup>For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001033">33</sup>But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>Then shalt thou understand the fear of the <b>Lord</b>, and find the knowledge of God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002013">13</sup>Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002014">14</sup>Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002015">15</sup>Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002016">16</sup>To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002017">17</sup>Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002018">18</sup>For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002019">19</sup>None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002020">20</sup>That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002021">21</sup>For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002022">22</sup>But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>Trust in the <b>Lord</b> with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the <b>Lord</b>, and depart from evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003009">9</sup>Honour the <b>Lord</b> with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003010">10</sup>So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003011">11</sup>My son, despise not the chastening of the <b>Lord</b>; neither be weary of his correction:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003012">12</sup>For whom the <b>Lord</b> loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003013">13</sup>Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003014">14</sup>For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003015">15</sup>She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003016">16</sup>Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003017">17</sup>Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003018">18</sup>She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003019">19</sup>The <b>Lord</b> by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003020">20</sup>By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003021">21</sup>My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003022">22</sup>So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003023">23</sup>Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003024">24</sup>When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003025">25</sup>Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003026">26</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003027">27</sup>Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003028">28</sup>Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003029">29</sup>Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003030">30</sup>Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003031">31</sup>Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003032">32</sup>For the froward is abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but his secret is with the righteous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003033">33</sup>The curse of the <b>Lord</b> is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003034">34</sup>Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003035">35</sup>The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004001">1</sup>Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004002">2</sup>For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004003">3</sup>For I was my father’s son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004004">4</sup>He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004005">5</sup>Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004006">6</sup>Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004007">7</sup>Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004008">8</sup>Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004009">9</sup>She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004010">10</sup>Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004011">11</sup>I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004012">12</sup>When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004013">13</sup>Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004014">14</sup>Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004015">15</sup>Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004016">16</sup>For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004017">17</sup>For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004018">18</sup>But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004019">19</sup>The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004020">20</sup>My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004021">21</sup>Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004022">22</sup>For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004023">23</sup>Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004024">24</sup>Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004025">25</sup>Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004026">26</sup>Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004027">27</sup>Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005001">1</sup>My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005002">2</sup>That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005003">3</sup>For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005004">4</sup>But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005005">5</sup>Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005006">6</sup>Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005007">7</sup>Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005008">8</sup>Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005009">9</sup>Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005010">10</sup>Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005011">11</sup>And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005012">12</sup>And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005013">13</sup>And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005014">14</sup>I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005015">15</sup>Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005016">16</sup>Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005017">17</sup>Let them be only thine own, and not strangers’ with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005018">18</sup>Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005019">19</sup>Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005020">20</sup>And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005021">21</sup>For the ways of man are before the eyes of the <b>Lord</b>, and he pondereth all his goings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005022">22</sup>His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005023">23</sup>He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006001">1</sup>My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006002">2</sup>Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006003">3</sup>Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006004">4</sup>Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006005">5</sup>Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006006">6</sup>Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006007">7</sup>Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006008">8</sup>Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006009">9</sup>How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006010">10</sup>Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006011">11</sup>So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006012">12</sup>A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006013">13</sup>He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006014">14</sup>Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006015">15</sup>Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006016">16</sup>These six things doth the <b>Lord</b> hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006017">17</sup>A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006018">18</sup>An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006019">19</sup>A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006020">20</sup>My son, keep thy father’s commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006021">21</sup>Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006022">22</sup>When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006023">23</sup>For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006024">24</sup>To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006025">25</sup>Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006026">26</sup>For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006027">27</sup>Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006028">28</sup>Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006029">29</sup>So he that goeth in to his neighbour’s wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006030">30</sup>Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006031">31</sup>But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006032">32</sup>But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006033">33</sup>A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006034">34</sup>For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006035">35</sup>He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007001">1</sup>My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007002">2</sup>Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007003">3</sup>Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007004">4</sup>Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007005">5</sup>That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007006">6</sup>For at the window of my house I looked through my casement,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007007">7</sup>And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007008">8</sup>Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007009">9</sup>In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007010">10</sup>And, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007011">11</sup>(She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007012">12</sup>Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.)</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007013">13</sup>So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007014">14</sup>I have peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007015">15</sup>Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007016">16</sup>I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen of Egypt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007017">17</sup>I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007018">18</sup>Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007019">19</sup>For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007020">20</sup>He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007021">21</sup>With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007022">22</sup>He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007023">23</sup>Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007024">24</sup>Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007025">25</sup>Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007026">26</sup>For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have been slain by her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007027">27</sup>Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008001">1</sup>Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008002">2</sup>She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008003">3</sup>She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008004">4</sup>Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008005">5</sup>O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008006">6</sup>Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008007">7</sup>For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008008">8</sup>All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008009">9</sup>They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008010">10</sup>Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008011">11</sup>For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008012">12</sup>I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008013">13</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008014">14</sup>Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008015">15</sup>By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008016">16</sup>By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008017">17</sup>I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008018">18</sup>Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008019">19</sup>My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008020">20</sup>I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008021">21</sup>That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008022">22</sup>The <b>Lord</b> possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008023">23</sup>I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008024">24</sup>When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008025">25</sup>Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008026">26</sup>While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008027">27</sup>When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008028">28</sup>When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008029">29</sup>When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008030">30</sup>Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008031">31</sup>Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008032">32</sup>Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008033">33</sup>Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008034">34</sup>Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008035">35</sup>For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008036">36</sup>But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009001">1</sup>Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009002">2</sup>She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009003">3</sup>She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009004">4</sup>Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009005">5</sup>Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009006">6</sup>Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009007">7</sup>He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009008">8</sup>Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009009">9</sup>Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009010">10</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009011">11</sup>For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009012">12</sup>If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009013">13</sup>A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009014">14</sup>For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009015">15</sup>To call passengers who go right on their ways:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009016">16</sup>Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009017">17</sup>Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009018">18</sup>But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010001">1</sup>The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010002">2</sup>Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010004">4</sup>He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010005">5</sup>He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010006">6</sup>Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010007">7</sup>The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010008">8</sup>The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010009">9</sup>He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010010">10</sup>He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010011">11</sup>The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010012">12</sup>Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010013">13</sup>In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010014">14</sup>Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010015">15</sup>The rich man’s wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010016">16</sup>The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010017">17</sup>He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010018">18</sup>He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander, is a fool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010019">19</sup>In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010020">20</sup>The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010021">21</sup>The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010022">22</sup>The blessing of the <b>Lord</b>, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010023">23</sup>It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010024">24</sup>The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010025">25</sup>As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010026">26</sup>As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010027">27</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010028">28</sup>The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010029">29</sup>The way of the <b>Lord</b> is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010030">30</sup>The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010031">31</sup>The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010032">32</sup>The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011001">1</sup>A false balance is abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but a just weight is his delight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011002">2</sup>When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011003">3</sup>The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011004">4</sup>Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011005">5</sup>The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011006">6</sup>The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011007">7</sup>When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011008">8</sup>The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011009">9</sup>An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011010">10</sup>When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011011">11</sup>By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011012">12</sup>He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011013">13</sup>A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011014">14</sup>Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011015">15</sup>He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011016">16</sup>A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011017">17</sup>The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011018">18</sup>The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011019">19</sup>As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011020">20</sup>They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011021">21</sup>Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011022">22</sup>As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011023">23</sup>The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011024">24</sup>There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011025">25</sup>The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011026">26</sup>He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011027">27</sup>He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011028">28</sup>He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011029">29</sup>He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011030">30</sup>The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011031">31</sup>Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012001">1</sup>Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012002">2</sup>A good man obtaineth favour of the <b>Lord</b>: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012003">3</sup>A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012004">4</sup>A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012005">5</sup>The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012006">6</sup>The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012007">7</sup>The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012008">8</sup>A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012009">9</sup>He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012010">10</sup>A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012011">11</sup>He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012012">12</sup>The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012013">13</sup>The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012014">14</sup>A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012015">15</sup>The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012016">16</sup>A fool’s wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012017">17</sup>He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012018">18</sup>There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012019">19</sup>The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012020">20</sup>Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012021">21</sup>There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012022">22</sup>Lying lips are abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but they that deal truly are his delight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012023">23</sup>A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012024">24</sup>The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012025">25</sup>Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012026">26</sup>The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012027">27</sup>The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012028">28</sup>In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof there is no death.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013001">1</sup>A wise son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013002">2</sup>A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013003">3</sup>He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013004">4</sup>The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013005">5</sup>A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013006">6</sup>Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013007">7</sup>There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013008">8</sup>The ransom of a man’s life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013009">9</sup>The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013010">10</sup>Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013011">11</sup>Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013012">12</sup>Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013013">13</sup>Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013014">14</sup>The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013015">15</sup>Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013016">16</sup>Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013017">17</sup>A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013018">18</sup>Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013019">19</sup>The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013020">20</sup>He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013021">21</sup>Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013022">22</sup>A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013023">23</sup>Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013024">24</sup>He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013025">25</sup>The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014001">1</sup>Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014002">2</sup>He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the <b>Lord</b>: but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014003">3</sup>In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014004">4</sup>Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014005">5</sup>A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014006">6</sup>A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easy unto him that understandeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014007">7</sup>Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not in him the lips of knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014008">8</sup>The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly of fools is deceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014009">9</sup>Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is favour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014010">10</sup>The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014011">11</sup>The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014012">12</sup>There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014013">13</sup>Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth is heaviness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014014">14</sup>The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014015">15</sup>The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh well to his going.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014016">16</sup>A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014017">17</sup>He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014018">18</sup>The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014019">19</sup>The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014020">20</sup>The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath many friends.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014021">21</sup>He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy on the poor, happy is he.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014022">22</sup>Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014023">23</sup>In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014024">24</sup>The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of fools is folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014025">25</sup>A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness speaketh lies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014026">26</sup>In the fear of the <b>Lord</b> is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014027">27</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014028">28</sup>In the multitude of people is the king’s honour: but in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014029">29</sup>He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014030">30</sup>A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014031">31</sup>He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014032">32</sup>The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014033">33</sup>Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but that which is in the midst of fools is made known.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014034">34</sup>Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014035">35</sup>The king’s favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is against him that causeth shame.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015001">1</sup>A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015002">2</sup>The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015003">3</sup>The eyes of the <b>Lord</b> are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015004">4</sup>A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015005">5</sup>A fool despiseth his father’s instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015006">6</sup>In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015007">7</sup>The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015008">8</sup>The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015009">9</sup>The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the <b>Lord</b>: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015010">10</sup>Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015011">11</sup>Hell and destruction are before the <b>Lord</b>: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015012">12</sup>A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015013">13</sup>A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015014">14</sup>The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015015">15</sup>All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015016">16</sup>Better is little with the fear of the <b>Lord</b> than great treasure and trouble therewith.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015017">17</sup>Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015018">18</sup>A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015019">19</sup>The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015020">20</sup>A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015021">21</sup>Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015022">22</sup>Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015023">23</sup>A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015024">24</sup>The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015025">25</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015026">26</sup>The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: but the words of the pure are pleasant words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015027">27</sup>He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015028">28</sup>The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015029">29</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015030">30</sup>The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015031">31</sup>The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015032">32</sup>He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015033">33</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016001">1</sup>The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016002">2</sup>All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the <b>Lord</b> weigheth the spirits.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016003">3</sup>Commit thy works unto the <b>Lord</b>, and thy thoughts shall be established.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016004">4</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016005">5</sup>Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the <b>Lord</b>: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016006">6</sup>By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the <b>Lord</b> men depart from evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016007">7</sup>When a man’s ways please the <b>Lord</b>, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016008">8</sup>Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016009">9</sup>A man’s heart deviseth his way: but the <b>Lord</b> directeth his steps.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016010">10</sup>A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016011">11</sup>A just weight and balance are the <b>Lord</b>’s: all the weights of the bag are his work.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016012">12</sup>It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016013">13</sup>Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016014">14</sup>The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016015">15</sup>In the light of the king’s countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016016">16</sup>How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016017">17</sup>The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016018">18</sup>Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016019">19</sup>Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016020">20</sup>He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the <b>Lord</b>, happy is he.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016021">21</sup>The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016022">22</sup>Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016023">23</sup>The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016024">24</sup>Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016025">25</sup>There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016026">26</sup>He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016027">27</sup>An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016028">28</sup>A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016029">29</sup>A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016030">30</sup>He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016031">31</sup>The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016032">32</sup>He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016033">33</sup>The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017001">1</sup>Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017002">2</sup>A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017003">3</sup>The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the <b>Lord</b> trieth the hearts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017004">4</sup>A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017005">5</sup>Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017006">6</sup>Children’s children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017007">7</sup>Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a prince.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017008">8</sup>A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017009">9</sup>He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017010">10</sup>A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017011">11</sup>An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017012">12</sup>Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017013">13</sup>Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017014">14</sup>The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017015">15</sup>He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017016">16</sup>Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017017">17</sup>A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017018">18</sup>A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017019">19</sup>He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017020">20</sup>He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017021">21</sup>He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father of a fool hath no joy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017022">22</sup>A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017023">23</sup>A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017024">24</sup>Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017025">25</sup>A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017026">26</sup>Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017027">27</sup>He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017028">28</sup>Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018001">1</sup>Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018002">2</sup>A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018003">3</sup>When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018004">4</sup>The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018005">5</sup>It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018006">6</sup>A fool’s lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018007">7</sup>A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018008">8</sup>The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018009">9</sup>He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018010">10</sup>The name of the <b>Lord</b> is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018011">11</sup>The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018012">12</sup>Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018013">13</sup>He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018014">14</sup>The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018015">15</sup>The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018016">16</sup>A man’s gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018017">17</sup>He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018018">18</sup>The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018019">19</sup>A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018020">20</sup>A man’s belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018021">21</sup>Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018022">22</sup>Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018023">23</sup>The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018024">24</sup>A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019001">1</sup>Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019002">2</sup>Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet sinneth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019003">3</sup>The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019004">4</sup>Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019005">5</sup>A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall not escape.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019006">6</sup>Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019007">7</sup>All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019008">8</sup>He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019009">9</sup>A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019010">10</sup>Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019011">11</sup>The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019012">12</sup>The king’s wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019013">13</sup>A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019014">14</sup>House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019015">15</sup>Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019016">16</sup>He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he that despiseth his ways shall die.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019017">17</sup>He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the <b>Lord</b>; and that which he hath given will he pay him again.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019018">18</sup>Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019019">19</sup>A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019020">20</sup>Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019021">21</sup>There are many devices in a man’s heart; nevertheless the counsel of the <b>Lord</b>, that shall stand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019022">22</sup>The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019023">23</sup>The fear of the <b>Lord</b> tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019024">24</sup>A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019025">25</sup>Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019026">26</sup>He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019027">27</sup>Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019028">28</sup>An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019029">29</sup>Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020001">1</sup>Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020002">2</sup>The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020003">3</sup>It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020004">4</sup>The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020005">5</sup>Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020006">6</sup>Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020007">7</sup>The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020008">8</sup>A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020009">9</sup>Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020010">10</sup>Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike abomination to the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020011">11</sup>Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020012">12</sup>The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the <b>Lord</b> hath made even both of them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020013">13</sup>Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020014">14</sup>It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020015">15</sup>There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020016">16</sup>Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020017">17</sup>Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020018">18</sup>Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020019">19</sup>He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020020">20</sup>Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020021">21</sup>An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020022">22</sup>Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the <b>Lord</b>, and he shall save thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020023">23</sup>Divers weights are an abomination unto the <b>Lord</b>; and a false balance is not good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020024">24</sup>Man’s goings are of the <b>Lord</b>; how can a man then understand his own way?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020025">25</sup>It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make enquiry.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020026">26</sup>A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020027">27</sup>The spirit of man is the candle of the <b>Lord</b>, searching all the inward parts of the belly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020028">28</sup>Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020029">29</sup>The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the grey head.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020030">30</sup>The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the inward parts of the belly.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021001">1</sup>The king’s heart is in the hand of the <b>Lord</b>, as the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021002">2</sup>Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the <b>Lord</b> pondereth the hearts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021003">3</sup>To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the <b>Lord</b> than sacrifice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021004">4</sup>An high look, and a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked, is sin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021005">5</sup>The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty only to want.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021006">6</sup>The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro of them that seek death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021007">7</sup>The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them; because they refuse to do judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021008">8</sup>The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his work is right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021009">9</sup>It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021010">10</sup>The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021011">11</sup>When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021012">12</sup>The righteous man wisely considereth the house of the wicked: but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021013">13</sup>Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021014">14</sup>A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the bosom strong wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021015">15</sup>It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021016">16</sup>The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021017">17</sup>He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021018">18</sup>The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the transgressor for the upright.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021019">19</sup>It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious and an angry woman.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021020">20</sup>There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021021">21</sup>He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021022">22</sup>A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021023">23</sup>Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021024">24</sup>Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021025">25</sup>The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021026">26</sup>He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth and spareth not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021027">27</sup>The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, when he bringeth it with a wicked mind?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021028">28</sup>A false witness shall perish: but the man that heareth speaketh constantly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021029">29</sup>A wicked man hardeneth his face: but as for the upright, he directeth his way.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021030">30</sup>There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021031">31</sup>The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022001">1</sup>A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022002">2</sup>The rich and poor meet together: the <b>Lord</b> is the maker of them all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022003">3</sup>A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022004">4</sup>By humility and the fear of the <b>Lord</b> are riches, and honour, and life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022005">5</sup>Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022006">6</sup>Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022007">7</sup>The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022008">8</sup>He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022009">9</sup>He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022010">10</sup>Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022011">11</sup>He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022012">12</sup>The eyes of the <b>Lord</b> preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022013">13</sup>The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022014">14</sup>The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the <b>Lord</b> shall fall therein.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022015">15</sup>Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022016">16</sup>He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022017">17</sup>Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022018">18</sup>For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022019">19</sup>That thy trust may be in the <b>Lord</b>, I have made known to thee this day, even to thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022020">20</sup>Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022021">21</sup>That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022022">22</sup>Rob not the poor, because he is poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022023">23</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022024">24</sup>Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022025">25</sup>Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022026">26</sup>Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022027">27</sup>If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022028">28</sup>Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022029">29</sup>Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023001">1</sup>When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023002">2</sup>And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023003">3</sup>Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023004">4</sup>Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023005">5</sup>Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023006">6</sup>Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023007">7</sup>For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023008">8</sup>The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023009">9</sup>Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023010">10</sup>Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023011">11</sup>For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead their cause with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023012">12</sup>Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023013">13</sup>Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023014">14</sup>Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023015">15</sup>My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023016">16</sup>Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023017">17</sup>Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the <b>Lord</b> all the day long.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023018">18</sup>For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be cut off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023019">19</sup>Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023020">20</sup>Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023021">21</sup>For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023022">22</sup>Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023023">23</sup>Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023024">24</sup>The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023025">25</sup>Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall rejoice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023026">26</sup>My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023027">27</sup>For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023028">28</sup>She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the transgressors among men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023029">29</sup>Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023030">30</sup>They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023031">31</sup>Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023032">32</sup>At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023033">33</sup>Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023034">34</sup>Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023035">35</sup>They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it yet again.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024001">1</sup>Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024002">2</sup>For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024003">3</sup>Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024004">4</sup>And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024005">5</sup>A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024006">6</sup>For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellors there is safety.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024007">7</sup>Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the gate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024008">8</sup>He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024009">9</sup>The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an abomination to men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024010">10</sup>If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024011">11</sup>If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024012">12</sup>If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he render to every man according to his works?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024013">13</sup>My son, eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024014">14</sup>So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024015">15</sup>Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024016">16</sup>For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024017">17</sup>Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024018">18</sup>Lest the <b>Lord</b> see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024019">19</sup>Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the wicked:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024020">20</sup>For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024021">21</sup>My son, fear thou the <b>Lord</b> and the king: and meddle not with them that are given to change:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024022">22</sup>For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024023">23</sup>These things also belong to the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024024">24</sup>He that saith unto the wicked, Thou are righteous; him shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024025">25</sup>But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024026">26</sup>Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024027">27</sup>Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thine house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024028">28</sup>Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive not with thy lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024029">29</sup>Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024030">30</sup>I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024031">31</sup>And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024032">32</sup>Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024033">33</sup>Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024034">34</sup>So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025001">1</sup>These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025002">2</sup>It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025003">3</sup>The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025004">4</sup>Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025005">5</sup>Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025006">6</sup>Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025007">7</sup>For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025008">8</sup>Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025009">9</sup>Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025010">10</sup>Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025011">11</sup>A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025012">12</sup>As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025013">13</sup>As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025014">14</sup>Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025015">15</sup>By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025016">16</sup>Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025017">17</sup>Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour’s house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025018">18</sup>A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025019">19</sup>Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025020">20</sup>As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025021">21</sup>If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025022">22</sup>For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the <b>Lord</b> shall reward thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025023">23</sup>The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025024">24</sup>It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025025">25</sup>As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025026">26</sup>A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025027">27</sup>It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025028">28</sup>He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026001">1</sup>As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026002">2</sup>As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026003">3</sup>A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool’s back.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026004">4</sup>Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026005">5</sup>Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026006">6</sup>He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026007">7</sup>The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026008">8</sup>As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to a fool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026009">9</sup>As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouths of fools.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026010">10</sup>The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026011">11</sup>As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026012">12</sup>Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026013">13</sup>The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026014">14</sup>As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026015">15</sup>The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026016">16</sup>The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026017">17</sup>He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026018">18</sup>As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026019">19</sup>So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026020">20</sup>Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026021">21</sup>As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026022">22</sup>The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026023">23</sup>Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026024">24</sup>He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026025">25</sup>When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026026">26</sup>Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026027">27</sup>Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026028">28</sup>A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027001">1</sup>Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027002">2</sup>Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027003">3</sup>A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool’s wrath is heavier than them both.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027004">4</sup>Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before envy?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027005">5</sup>Open rebuke is better than secret love.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027006">6</sup>Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027007">7</sup>The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027008">8</sup>As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027009">9</sup>Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man’s friend by hearty counsel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027010">10</sup>Thine own friend, and thy father’s friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother’s house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027011">11</sup>My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that reproacheth me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027012">12</sup>A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027013">13</sup>Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027014">14</sup>He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027015">15</sup>A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027016">16</sup>Whosoever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his right hand, which bewrayeth itself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027017">17</sup>Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027018">18</sup>Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027019">19</sup>As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027020">20</sup>Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027021">21</sup>As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027022">22</sup>Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027023">23</sup>Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027024">24</sup>For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027025">25</sup>The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027026">26</sup>The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027027">27</sup>And thou shalt have goats’ milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028001">1</sup>The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028002">2</sup>For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028003">3</sup>A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028004">4</sup>They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028005">5</sup>Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the <b>Lord</b> understand all things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028006">6</sup>Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028007">7</sup>Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shameth his father.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028008">8</sup>He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028009">9</sup>He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028010">10</sup>Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028011">11</sup>The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028012">12</sup>When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028013">13</sup>He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028014">14</sup>Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028015">15</sup>As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028016">16</sup>The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028017">17</sup>A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028018">18</sup>Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028019">19</sup>He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028020">20</sup>A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028021">21</sup>To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028022">22</sup>He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028023">23</sup>He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028024">24</sup>Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028025">25</sup>He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the <b>Lord</b> shall be made fat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028026">26</sup>He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028027">27</sup>He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028028">28</sup>When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029001">1</sup>He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029002">2</sup>When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029003">3</sup>Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029004">4</sup>The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029005">5</sup>A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029006">6</sup>In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029007">7</sup>The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029008">8</sup>Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029009">9</sup>If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029010">10</sup>The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029011">11</sup>A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029012">12</sup>If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029013">13</sup>The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the <b>Lord</b> lighteneth both their eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029014">14</sup>The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029015">15</sup>The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029016">16</sup>When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029017">17</sup>Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029018">18</sup>Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029019">19</sup>A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029020">20</sup>Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029021">21</sup>He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029022">22</sup>An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029023">23</sup>A man’s pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029024">24</sup>Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029025">25</sup>The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the <b>Lord</b> shall be safe.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029026">26</sup>Many seek the ruler’s favour; but every man’s judgment cometh from the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029027">27</sup>An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030001">1</sup>The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030002">2</sup>Surely I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030003">3</sup>I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030004">4</sup>Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son’s name, if thou canst tell?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030005">5</sup>Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030006">6</sup>Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030007">7</sup>Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030008">8</sup>Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030009">9</sup>Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the <b>Lord</b>? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030010">10</sup>Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030011">11</sup>There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030012">12</sup>There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030013">13</sup>There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030014">14</sup>There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030015">15</sup>The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is enough:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030016">16</sup>The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030017">17</sup>The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030018">18</sup>There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030019">19</sup>The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030020">20</sup>Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030021">21</sup>For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030022">22</sup>For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030023">23</sup>For an odious woman when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030024">24</sup>There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030025">25</sup>The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030026">26</sup>The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030027">27</sup>The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030028">28</sup>The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings’ palaces.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030029">29</sup>There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030030">30</sup>A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030031">31</sup>A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom there is no rising up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030032">32</sup>If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030033">33</sup>Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031001">1</sup>The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031002">2</sup>What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031003">3</sup>Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031004">4</sup>It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031005">5</sup>Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031006">6</sup>Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031007">7</sup>Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031008">8</sup>Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031009">9</sup>Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031010">10</sup>Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031011">11</sup>The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031012">12</sup>She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031013">13</sup>She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031014">14</sup>She is like the merchants’ ships; she bringeth her food from afar.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031015">15</sup>She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031016">16</sup>She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031017">17</sup>She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031018">18</sup>She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031019">19</sup>She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031020">20</sup>She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031021">21</sup>She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031022">22</sup>She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031023">23</sup>Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031024">24</sup>She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031025">25</sup>Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031026">26</sup>She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031027">27</sup>She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031028">28</sup>Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031029">29</sup>Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031030">30</sup>Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the <b>Lord</b>, she shall be praised.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031031">31</sup>Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
