<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Job</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-18" epub:type="volume">
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">1</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day; and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the <b>Lord</b>, and Satan came also among them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>Then Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>And there came a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding beside them:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>And the Sabeans fell upon them, and took them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001016">16</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001017">17</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001018">18</sup>While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s house:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001019">19</sup>And, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001020">20</sup>Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001021">21</sup>And said, Naked came I out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return thither: the <b>Lord</b> gave, and the <b>Lord</b> hath taken away; blessed be the name of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001022">22</sup>In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">2</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">2</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the <b>Lord</b>, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>And Satan answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>So went Satan forth from the presence of the <b>Lord</b>, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down among the ashes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and die.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>Now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002013">13</sup>So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief was very great.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">3</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">3</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>And Job spake, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child conceived.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>As for that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined unto the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up their mourning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003009">9</sup>Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark; let it look for light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the day:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003010">10</sup>Because it shut not up the doors of my mother’s womb, nor hid sorrow from mine eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003011">11</sup>Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the ghost when I came out of the belly?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003012">12</sup>Why did the knees prevent me? or why the breasts that I should suck?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003013">13</sup>For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003014">14</sup>With kings and counsellors of the earth, which build desolate places for themselves;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003015">15</sup>Or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003016">16</sup>Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants which never saw light.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003017">17</sup>There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the weary be at rest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003018">18</sup>There the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003019">19</sup>The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his master.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003020">20</sup>Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in soul;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003021">21</sup>Which long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003022">22</sup>Which rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003023">23</sup>Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003024">24</sup>For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003025">25</sup>For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003026">26</sup>I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">4</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">4</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004001">1</sup>Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004002">2</sup>If we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself from speaking?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004003">3</sup>Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004004">4</sup>Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004005">5</sup>But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004006">6</sup>Is not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the uprightness of thy ways?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004007">7</sup>Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004008">8</sup>Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap the same.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004009">9</sup>By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils are they consumed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004010">10</sup>The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions, are broken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004011">11</sup>The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion’s whelps are scattered abroad.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004012">12</sup>Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a little thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004013">13</sup>In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004014">14</sup>Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones to shake.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004015">15</sup>Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004016">16</sup>It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image was before mine eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004017">17</sup>Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be more pure than his maker?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004018">18</sup>Behold, he put no trust in his servants; and his angels he charged with folly:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004019">19</sup>How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, which are crushed before the moth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004020">20</sup>They are destroyed from morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004021">21</sup>Doth not their excellency which is in them go away? they die, even without wisdom.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">5</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">5</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005001">1</sup>Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of the saints wilt thou turn?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005002">2</sup>For wrath killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly one.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005003">3</sup>I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his habitation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005004">4</sup>His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, neither is there any to deliver them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005005">5</sup>Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005006">6</sup>Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth trouble spring out of the ground;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005007">7</sup>Yet man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005008">8</sup>I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005009">9</sup>Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without number:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005010">10</sup>Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon the fields:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005011">11</sup>To set up on high those that be low; that those which mourn may be exalted to safety.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005012">12</sup>He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005013">13</sup>He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of the froward is carried headlong.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005014">14</sup>They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday as in the night.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005015">15</sup>But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005016">16</sup>So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005017">17</sup>Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005018">18</sup>For he maketh sore, and bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005019">19</sup>He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005020">20</sup>In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the power of the sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005021">21</sup>Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005022">22</sup>At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005023">23</sup>For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005024">24</sup>And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005025">25</sup>Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine offspring as the grass of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005026">26</sup>Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005027">27</sup>Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it for thy good.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">6</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">6</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006001">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006002">2</sup>Oh that my grief were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006003">3</sup>For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are swallowed up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006004">4</sup>For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006005">5</sup>Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006006">6</sup>Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006007">7</sup>The things that my soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006008">8</sup>Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006009">9</sup>Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006010">10</sup>Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006011">11</sup>What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006012">12</sup>Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006013">13</sup>Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006014">14</sup>To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006015">15</sup>My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream of brooks they pass away;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006016">16</sup>Which are blackish by reason of the ice, and wherein the snow is hid:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006017">17</sup>What time they wax warm, they vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006018">18</sup>The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and perish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006019">19</sup>The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006020">20</sup>They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither, and were ashamed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006021">21</sup>For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006022">22</sup>Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your substance?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006023">23</sup>Or, Deliver me from the enemy’s hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006024">24</sup>Teach me, and I will hold my tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006025">25</sup>How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006026">26</sup>Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is desperate, which are as wind?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006027">27</sup>Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and ye dig a pit for your friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006028">28</sup>Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto you if I lie.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006029">29</sup>Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my righteousness is in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006030">30</sup>Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse things?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">7</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">7</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007001">1</sup>Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not his days also like the days of an hireling?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007002">2</sup>As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the reward of his work:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007003">3</sup>So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007004">4</sup>When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007005">5</sup>My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and become loathsome.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007006">6</sup>My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and are spent without hope.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007007">7</sup>O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007008">8</sup>The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes are upon me, and I am not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007009">9</sup>As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007010">10</sup>He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007011">11</sup>Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007012">12</sup>Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007013">13</sup>When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaints;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007014">14</sup>Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007015">15</sup>So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death rather than my life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007016">16</sup>I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days are vanity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007017">17</sup>What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007018">18</sup>And that thou shouldest visit him every morning, and try him every moment?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007019">19</sup>How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007020">20</sup>I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007021">21</sup>And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, and take away my iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">8</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">8</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008001">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008002">2</sup>How long wilt thou speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008003">3</sup>Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008004">4</sup>If thy children have sinned against him, and he have cast them away for their transgression;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008005">5</sup>If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008006">6</sup>If thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008007">7</sup>Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008008">8</sup>For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008009">9</sup>(For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:)</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008010">10</sup>Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008011">11</sup>Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008012">12</sup>Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down, it withereth before any other herb.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008013">13</sup>So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite’s hope shall perish:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008014">14</sup>Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be a spider’s web.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008015">15</sup>He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008016">16</sup>He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his garden.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008017">17</sup>His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of stones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008018">18</sup>If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, I have not seen thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008019">19</sup>Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall others grow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008020">20</sup>Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he help the evil doers:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008021">21</sup>Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and thy lips with rejoicing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008022">22</sup>They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">9</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">9</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009001">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009002">2</sup>I know it is so of a truth: but how should man be just with God?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009003">3</sup>If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009004">4</sup>He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009005">5</sup>Which removeth the mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009006">6</sup>Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009007">7</sup>Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009008">8</sup>Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009009">9</sup>Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009010">10</sup>Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009011">11</sup>Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009012">12</sup>Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009013">13</sup>If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009014">14</sup>How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009015">15</sup>Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer, but I would make supplication to my judge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009016">16</sup>If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009017">17</sup>For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009018">18</sup>He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009019">19</sup>If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009020">20</sup>If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009021">21</sup>Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009022">22</sup>This is one thing, therefore I said it, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009023">23</sup>If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009024">24</sup>The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who is he?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009025">25</sup>Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009026">26</sup>They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that hasteth to the prey.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009027">27</sup>If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009028">28</sup>I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009029">29</sup>If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009030">30</sup>If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009031">31</sup>Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009032">32</sup>For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009033">33</sup>Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand upon us both.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009034">34</sup>Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009035">35</sup>Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">10</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">10</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010001">1</sup>My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010002">2</sup>I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou contendest with me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010003">3</sup>Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010004">4</sup>Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010005">5</sup>Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man’s days,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010006">6</sup>That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010007">7</sup>Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010008">8</sup>Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010009">9</sup>Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and wilt thou bring me into dust again?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010010">10</sup>Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010011">11</sup>Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010012">12</sup>Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010013">13</sup>And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this is with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010014">14</sup>If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010015">15</sup>If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010016">16</sup>For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion: and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010017">17</sup>Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me; changes and war are against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010018">18</sup>Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010019">19</sup>I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010020">20</sup>Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may take comfort a little,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010021">21</sup>Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010022">22</sup>A land of darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">11</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">11</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011001">1</sup>Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011002">2</sup>Should not the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be justified?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011003">3</sup>Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011004">4</sup>For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011005">5</sup>But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011006">6</sup>And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011007">7</sup>Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011008">8</sup>It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011009">9</sup>The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011010">10</sup>If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011011">11</sup>For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011012">12</sup>For vain men would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass’s colt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011013">13</sup>If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011014">14</sup>If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011015">15</sup>For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011016">16</sup>Because thou shalt forget thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011017">17</sup>And thine age shall be clearer than the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011018">18</sup>And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011019">19</sup>Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea, many shall make suit unto thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011020">20</sup>But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">12</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">12</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012001">1</sup>And Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012002">2</sup>No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012003">3</sup>But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012004">4</sup>I am as one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him: the just upright man is laughed to scorn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012005">5</sup>He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012006">6</sup>The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012007">7</sup>But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012008">8</sup>Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012009">9</sup>Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the <b>Lord</b> hath wrought this?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012010">10</sup>In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012011">11</sup>Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012012">12</sup>With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012013">13</sup>With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012014">14</sup>Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012015">15</sup>Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012016">16</sup>With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver are his.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012017">17</sup>He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges fools.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012018">18</sup>He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a girdle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012019">19</sup>He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012020">20</sup>He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012021">21</sup>He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of the mighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012022">22</sup>He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012023">23</sup>He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them again.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012024">24</sup>He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012025">25</sup>They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like a drunken man.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">13</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">13</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013001">1</sup>Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013002">2</sup>What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013003">3</sup>Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013004">4</sup>But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013005">5</sup>O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013006">6</sup>Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013007">7</sup>Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013008">8</sup>Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013009">9</sup>Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013010">10</sup>He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013011">11</sup>Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013012">12</sup>Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013013">13</sup>Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013014">14</sup>Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013015">15</sup>Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013016">16</sup>He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013017">17</sup>Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013018">18</sup>Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013019">19</sup>Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013020">20</sup>Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013021">21</sup>Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me afraid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013022">22</sup>Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer thou me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013023">23</sup>How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013024">24</sup>Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013025">25</sup>Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue the dry stubble?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013026">26</sup>For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013027">27</sup>Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013028">28</sup>And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">14</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">14</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014001">1</sup>Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014002">2</sup>He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014003">3</sup>And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014004">4</sup>Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014005">5</sup>Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014006">6</sup>Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014007">7</sup>For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014008">8</sup>Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014009">9</sup>Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014010">10</sup>But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014011">11</sup>As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014012">12</sup>So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014013">13</sup>O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014014">14</sup>If a man die, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014015">15</sup>Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014016">16</sup>For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014017">17</sup>My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014018">18</sup>And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of his place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014019">19</sup>The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014020">20</sup>Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014021">21</sup>His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014022">22</sup>But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">15</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">15</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015001">1</sup>Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015002">2</sup>Should a wise man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015003">3</sup>Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015004">4</sup>Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015005">5</sup>For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the crafty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015006">6</sup>Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips testify against thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015007">7</sup>Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before the hills?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015008">8</sup>Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015009">9</sup>What knowest thou, that we know not? what understandest thou, which is not in us?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015010">10</sup>With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015011">11</sup>Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015012">12</sup>Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015013">13</sup>That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015014">14</sup>What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015015">15</sup>Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015016">16</sup>How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015017">17</sup>I will shew thee, hear me; and that which I have seen I will declare;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015018">18</sup>Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hid it:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015019">19</sup>Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015020">20</sup>The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015021">21</sup>A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015022">22</sup>He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is waited for of the sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015023">23</sup>He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015024">24</sup>Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015025">25</sup>For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth himself against the Almighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015026">26</sup>He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of his bucklers:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015027">27</sup>Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and maketh collops of fat on his flanks.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015028">28</sup>And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015029">29</sup>He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015030">30</sup>He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015031">31</sup>Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall be his recompence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015032">32</sup>It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall not be green.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015033">33</sup>He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015034">34</sup>For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015035">35</sup>They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">16</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">16</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016001">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016002">2</sup>I have heard many such things: miserable comforters are ye all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016003">3</sup>Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016004">4</sup>I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my soul’s stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016005">5</sup>But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips should asswage your grief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016006">6</sup>Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear, what am I eased?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016007">7</sup>But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016008">8</sup>And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016009">9</sup>He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016010">10</sup>They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016011">11</sup>God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into the hands of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016012">12</sup>I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016013">13</sup>His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016014">14</sup>He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like a giant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016015">15</sup>I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016016">16</sup>My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016017">17</sup>Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is pure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016018">18</sup>O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016019">19</sup>Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on high.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016020">20</sup>My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016021">21</sup>O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for his neighbour!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016022">22</sup>When a few years are come, then I shall go the way whence I shall not return.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">17</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">17</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017001">1</sup>My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017002">2</sup>Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in their provocation?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017003">3</sup>Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who is he that will strike hands with me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017004">4</sup>For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017005">5</sup>He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children shall fail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017006">6</sup>He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was as a tabret.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017007">7</sup>Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are as a shadow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017008">8</sup>Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017009">9</sup>The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017010">10</sup>But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot find one wise man among you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017011">11</sup>My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017012">12</sup>They change the night into day: the light is short because of darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017013">13</sup>If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017014">14</sup>I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017015">15</sup>And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017016">16</sup>They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">18</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">18</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018001">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018002">2</sup>How long will it be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018003">3</sup>Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018004">4</sup>He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018005">5</sup>Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018006">6</sup>The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018007">7</sup>The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018008">8</sup>For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018009">9</sup>The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail against him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018010">10</sup>The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in the way.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018011">11</sup>Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018012">12</sup>His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be ready at his side.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018013">13</sup>It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018014">14</sup>His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018015">15</sup>It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his: brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018016">16</sup>His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018017">17</sup>His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018018">18</sup>He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018019">19</sup>He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018020">20</sup>They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they that went before were affrighted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018021">21</sup>Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the place of him that knoweth not God.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">19</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">19</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019001">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019002">2</sup>How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019003">3</sup>These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019004">4</sup>And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with myself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019005">5</sup>If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019006">6</sup>Know now that God hath overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019007">7</sup>Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019008">8</sup>He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019009">9</sup>He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019010">10</sup>He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a tree.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019011">11</sup>He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me unto him as one of his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019012">12</sup>His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round about my tabernacle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019013">13</sup>He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019014">14</sup>My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019015">15</sup>They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019016">16</sup>I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him with my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019017">17</sup>My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the children’s sake of mine own body.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019018">18</sup>Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019019">19</sup>All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019020">20</sup>My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019021">21</sup>Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019022">22</sup>Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019023">23</sup>Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019024">24</sup>That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019025">25</sup>For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019026">26</sup>And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019027">27</sup>Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019028">28</sup>But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019029">29</sup>Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a judgment.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">20</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">20</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020001">1</sup>Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020002">2</sup>Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020003">3</sup>I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020004">4</sup>Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020005">5</sup>That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020006">6</sup>Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020007">7</sup>Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020008">8</sup>He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020009">9</sup>The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall his place any more behold him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020010">10</sup>His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020011">11</sup>His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down with him in the dust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020012">12</sup>Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020013">13</sup>Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it still within his mouth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020014">14</sup>Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it is the gall of asps within him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020015">15</sup>He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again: God shall cast them out of his belly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020016">16</sup>He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper’s tongue shall slay him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020017">17</sup>He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and butter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020018">18</sup>That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice therein.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020019">19</sup>Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020020">20</sup>Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that which he desired.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020021">21</sup>There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man look for his goods.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020022">22</sup>In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every hand of the wicked shall come upon him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020023">23</sup>When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020024">24</sup>He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall strike him through.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020025">25</sup>It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020026">26</sup>All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020027">27</sup>The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise up against him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020028">28</sup>The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020029">29</sup>This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">21</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">21</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021001">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021002">2</sup>Hear diligently my speech, and let this be your consolations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021003">3</sup>Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021004">4</sup>As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021005">5</sup>Mark me, and be astonished, and lay your hand upon your mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021006">6</sup>Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my flesh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021007">7</sup>Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021008">8</sup>Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021009">9</sup>Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021010">10</sup>Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021011">11</sup>They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021012">12</sup>They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021013">13</sup>They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the grave.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021014">14</sup>Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021015">15</sup>What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit should we have, if we pray unto him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021016">16</sup>Lo, their good is not in their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021017">17</sup>How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh their destruction upon them! God distributeth sorrows in his anger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021018">18</sup>They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm carrieth away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021019">19</sup>God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him, and he shall know it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021020">20</sup>His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021021">21</sup>For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off in the midst?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021022">22</sup>Shall any teach God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021023">23</sup>One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021024">24</sup>His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with marrow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021025">25</sup>And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never eateth with pleasure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021026">26</sup>They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021027">27</sup>Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye wrongfully imagine against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021028">28</sup>For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? and where are the dwelling places of the wicked?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021029">29</sup>Have ye not asked them that go by the way? and do ye not know their tokens,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021030">30</sup>That the wicked is reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021031">31</sup>Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him what he hath done?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021032">32</sup>Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and shall remain in the tomb.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021033">33</sup>The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021034">34</sup>How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there remaineth falsehood?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">22</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">22</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022001">1</sup>Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022002">2</sup>Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022003">3</sup>Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022004">4</sup>Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he enter with thee into judgment?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022005">5</sup>Is not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities infinite?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022006">6</sup>For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022007">7</sup>Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022008">8</sup>But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable man dwelt in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022009">9</sup>Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022010">10</sup>Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022011">11</sup>Or darkness, that thou canst not see; and abundance of waters cover thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022012">12</sup>Is not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the stars, how high they are!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022013">13</sup>And thou sayest, How doth God know? can he judge through the dark cloud?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022014">14</sup>Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of heaven.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022015">15</sup>Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022016">16</sup>Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022017">17</sup>Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can the Almighty do for them?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022018">18</sup>Yet he filled their houses with good things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022019">19</sup>The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them to scorn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022020">20</sup>Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them the fire consumeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022021">21</sup>Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022022">22</sup>Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022023">23</sup>If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022024">24</sup>Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022025">25</sup>Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have plenty of silver.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022026">26</sup>For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022027">27</sup>Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022028">28</sup>Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022029">29</sup>When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up; and he shall save the humble person.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022030">30</sup>He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered by the pureness of thine hands.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">23</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">23</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023001">1</sup>Then Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023002">2</sup>Even to day is my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023003">3</sup>Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to his seat!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023004">4</sup>I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023005">5</sup>I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023006">6</sup>Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would put strength in me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023007">7</sup>There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be delivered for ever from my judge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023008">8</sup>Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I cannot perceive him:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023009">9</sup>On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023010">10</sup>But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023011">11</sup>My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023012">12</sup>Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023013">13</sup>But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul desireth, even that he doeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023014">14</sup>For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many such things are with him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023015">15</sup>Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am afraid of him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023016">16</sup>For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023017">17</sup>Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he covered the darkness from my face.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">24</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">24</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024001">1</sup>Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024002">2</sup>Some remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024003">3</sup>They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow’s ox for a pledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024004">4</sup>They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024005">5</sup>Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024006">6</sup>They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024007">7</sup>They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no covering in the cold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024008">8</sup>They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024009">9</sup>They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024010">10</sup>They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf from the hungry;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024011">11</sup>Which make oil within their walls, and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024012">12</sup>Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024013">13</sup>They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024014">14</sup>The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024015">15</sup>The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024016">16</sup>In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024017">17</sup>For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024018">18</sup>He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024019">19</sup>Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave those which have sinned.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024020">20</sup>The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024021">21</sup>He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024022">22</sup>He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no man is sure of life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024023">23</sup>Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes are upon their ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024024">24</sup>They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024025">25</sup>And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">25</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">25</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025001">1</sup>Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025002">2</sup>Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high places.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025003">3</sup>Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his light arise?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025004">4</sup>How then can man be justified with God? or how can he be clean that is born of a woman?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025005">5</sup>Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025006">6</sup>How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a worm?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">26</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">26</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026001">1</sup>But Job answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026002">2</sup>How hast thou helped him that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026003">3</sup>How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026004">4</sup>To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026005">5</sup>Dead things are formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026006">6</sup>Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026007">7</sup>He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026008">8</sup>He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is not rent under them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026009">9</sup>He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud upon it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026010">10</sup>He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and night come to an end.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026011">11</sup>The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026012">12</sup>He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026013">13</sup>By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the crooked serpent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026014">14</sup>Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">27</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">27</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027001">1</sup>Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027002">2</sup>As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027003">3</sup>All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027004">4</sup>My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027005">5</sup>God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027006">6</sup>My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027007">7</sup>Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027008">8</sup>For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027009">9</sup>Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027010">10</sup>Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027011">11</sup>I will teach you by the hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027012">12</sup>Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus altogether vain?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027013">13</sup>This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the Almighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027014">14</sup>If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027015">15</sup>Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his widows shall not weep.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027016">16</sup>Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027017">17</sup>He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027018">18</sup>He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper maketh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027019">19</sup>The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he openeth his eyes, and he is not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027020">20</sup>Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away in the night.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027021">21</sup>The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a storm hurleth him out of his place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027022">22</sup>For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee out of his hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027023">23</sup>Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">28</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">28</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028001">1</sup>Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where they fine it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028002">2</sup>Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the stone.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028003">3</sup>He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028004">4</sup>The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028005">5</sup>As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up as it were fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028006">6</sup>The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028007">7</sup>There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture’s eye hath not seen:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028008">8</sup>The lion’s whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028009">9</sup>He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the mountains by the roots.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028010">10</sup>He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028011">11</sup>He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028012">12</sup>But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028013">13</sup>Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028014">14</sup>The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not with me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028015">15</sup>It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028016">16</sup>It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028017">17</sup>The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028018">18</sup>No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom is above rubies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028019">19</sup>The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028020">20</sup>Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028021">21</sup>Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028022">22</sup>Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with our ears.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028023">23</sup>God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028024">24</sup>For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the whole heaven;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028025">25</sup>To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth the waters by measure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028026">26</sup>When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028027">27</sup>Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it, yea, and searched it out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028028">28</sup>And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the <b>Lord</b>, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">29</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">29</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029001">1</sup>Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029002">2</sup>Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029003">3</sup>When his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029004">4</sup>As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029005">5</sup>When the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029006">6</sup>When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029007">7</sup>When I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029008">8</sup>The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and stood up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029009">9</sup>The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029010">10</sup>The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029011">11</sup>When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029012">12</sup>Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029013">13</sup>The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029014">14</sup>I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a robe and a diadem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029015">15</sup>I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029016">16</sup>I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I searched out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029017">17</sup>And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029018">18</sup>Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029019">19</sup>My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night upon my branch.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029020">20</sup>My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029021">21</sup>Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my counsel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029022">22</sup>After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029023">23</sup>And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029024">24</sup>If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my countenance they cast not down.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029025">25</sup>I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one that comforteth the mourners.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">30</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">30</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030001">1</sup>But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030002">2</sup>Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom old age was perished?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030003">3</sup>For want and famine they were solitary; fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030004">4</sup>Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their meat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030005">5</sup>They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as after a thief;)</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030006">6</sup>To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves of the earth, and in the rocks.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030007">7</sup>Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were gathered together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030008">8</sup>They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were viler than the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030009">9</sup>And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030010">10</sup>They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in my face.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030011">11</sup>Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030012">12</sup>Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030013">13</sup>They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no helper.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030014">14</sup>They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the desolation they rolled themselves upon me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030015">15</sup>Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030016">16</sup>And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030017">17</sup>My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030018">18</sup>By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it bindeth me about as the collar of my coat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030019">19</sup>He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and ashes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030020">20</sup>I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030021">21</sup>Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030022">22</sup>Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it, and dissolvest my substance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030023">23</sup>For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all living.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030024">24</sup>Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though they cry in his destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030025">25</sup>Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul grieved for the poor?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030026">26</sup>When I looked for good, then evil came unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030027">27</sup>My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction prevented me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030028">28</sup>I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the congregation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030029">29</sup>I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030030">30</sup>My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030031">31</sup>My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">31</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">31</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031001">1</sup>I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031002">2</sup>For what portion of God is there from above? and what inheritance of the Almighty from on high?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031003">3</sup>Is not destruction to the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031004">4</sup>Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031005">5</sup>If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031006">6</sup>Let me be weighed in an even balance that God may know mine integrity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031007">7</sup>If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031008">8</sup>Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031009">9</sup>If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid wait at my neighbour’s door;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031010">10</sup>Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031011">11</sup>For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be punished by the judges.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031012">12</sup>For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031013">13</sup>If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031014">14</sup>What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031015">15</sup>Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031016">16</sup>If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031017">17</sup>Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031018">18</sup>(For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a father, and I have guided her from my mother’s womb;)</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031019">19</sup>If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031020">20</sup>If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031021">21</sup>If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031022">22</sup>Then let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031023">23</sup>For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his highness I could not endure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031024">24</sup>If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031025">25</sup>If I rejoice because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031026">26</sup>If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031027">27</sup>And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031028">28</sup>This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have denied the God that is above.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031029">29</sup>If I rejoice at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031030">30</sup>Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031031">31</sup>If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031032">32</sup>The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors to the traveller.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031033">33</sup>If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031034">34</sup>Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the door?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031035">35</sup>Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031036">36</sup>Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown to me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031037">37</sup>I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031038">38</sup>If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof complain;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031039">39</sup>If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031040">40</sup>Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">32</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">32</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032001">1</sup>So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032002">2</sup>Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032003">3</sup>Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032004">4</sup>Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032005">5</sup>When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032006">6</sup>And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032007">7</sup>I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032008">8</sup>But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032009">9</sup>Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032010">10</sup>Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032011">11</sup>Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032012">12</sup>Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032013">13</sup>Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032014">14</sup>Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032015">15</sup>They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032016">16</sup>When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;)</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032017">17</sup>I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032018">18</sup>For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032019">19</sup>Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032020">20</sup>I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032021">21</sup>Let me not, I pray you, accept any man’s person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032022">22</sup>For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">33</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">33</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033001">1</sup>Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all my words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033002">2</sup>Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033003">3</sup>My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033004">4</sup>The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033005">5</sup>If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033006">6</sup>Behold, I am according to thy wish in God’s stead: I also am formed out of the clay.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033007">7</sup>Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033008">8</sup>Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033009">9</sup>I am clean without transgression, I am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033010">10</sup>Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his enemy,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033011">11</sup>He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033012">12</sup>Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033013">13</sup>Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033014">14</sup>For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033015">15</sup>In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033016">16</sup>Then he openeth the ears of men, and sealeth their instruction,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033017">17</sup>That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033018">18</sup>He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033019">19</sup>He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong pain:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033020">20</sup>So that his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty meat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033021">21</sup>His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his bones that were not seen stick out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033022">22</sup>Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the destroyers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033023">23</sup>If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033024">24</sup>Then he is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033025">25</sup>His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s: he shall return to the days of his youth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033026">26</sup>He shall pray unto God, and he will be favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will render unto man his righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033027">27</sup>He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it profited me not;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033028">28</sup>He will deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the light.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033029">29</sup>Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033030">30</sup>To bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of the living.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033031">31</sup>Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will speak.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033032">32</sup>If thou hast anything to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to justify thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033033">33</sup>If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">34</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">34</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034001">1</sup>Furthermore Elihu answered and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034002">2</sup>Hear my words, O ye wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034003">3</sup>For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034004">4</sup>Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034005">5</sup>For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034006">6</sup>Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without transgression.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034007">7</sup>What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034008">8</sup>Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034009">9</sup>For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034010">10</sup>Therefore hearken unto me ye men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034011">11</sup>For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034012">12</sup>Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034013">13</sup>Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034014">14</sup>If he set his heart upon man, if he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034015">15</sup>All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034016">16</sup>If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034017">17</sup>Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034018">18</sup>Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034019">19</sup>How much less to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034020">20</sup>In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034021">21</sup>For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034022">22</sup>There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034023">23</sup>For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should enter into judgment with God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034024">24</sup>He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034025">25</sup>Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the night, so that they are destroyed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034026">26</sup>He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034027">27</sup>Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034028">28</sup>So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034029">29</sup>When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a nation, or against a man only:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034030">30</sup>That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034031">31</sup>Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034032">32</sup>That which I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034033">33</sup>Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034034">34</sup>Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034035">35</sup>Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034036">36</sup>My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his answers for wicked men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034037">37</sup>For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against God.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">35</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">35</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035001">1</sup>Elihu spake moreover, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035002">2</sup>Thinkest thou this to be right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God’s?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035003">3</sup>For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035004">4</sup>I will answer thee, and thy companions with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035005">5</sup>Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are higher than thou.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035006">6</sup>If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035007">7</sup>If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035008">8</sup>Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy righteousness may profit the son of man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035009">9</sup>By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035010">10</sup>But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the night;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035011">11</sup>Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035012">12</sup>There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035013">13</sup>Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035014">14</sup>Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is before him; therefore trust thou in him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035015">15</sup>But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet he knoweth it not in great extremity:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035016">16</sup>Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">36</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">36</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036001">1</sup>Elihu also proceeded, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036002">2</sup>Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God’s behalf.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036003">3</sup>I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036004">4</sup>For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in knowledge is with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036005">5</sup>Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength and wisdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036006">6</sup>He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036007">7</sup>He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036008">8</sup>And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of affliction;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036009">9</sup>Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036010">10</sup>He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036011">11</sup>If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036012">12</sup>But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036013">13</sup>But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036014">14</sup>They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036015">15</sup>He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036016">16</sup>Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table should be full of fatness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036017">17</sup>But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036018">18</sup>Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036019">19</sup>Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036020">20</sup>Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036021">21</sup>Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036022">22</sup>Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036023">23</sup>Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036024">24</sup>Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036025">25</sup>Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036026">26</sup>Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036027">27</sup>For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036028">28</sup>Which the clouds do drop and distil upon man abundantly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036029">29</sup>Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036030">30</sup>Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036031">31</sup>For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036032">32</sup>With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036033">33</sup>The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">37</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">37</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037001">1</sup>At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037002">2</sup>Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth out of his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037003">3</sup>He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037004">4</sup>After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037005">5</sup>God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037006">6</sup>For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037007">7</sup>He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037008">8</sup>Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037009">9</sup>Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037010">10</sup>By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037011">11</sup>Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his bright cloud:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037012">12</sup>And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037013">13</sup>He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037014">14</sup>Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037015">15</sup>Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037016">16</sup>Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037017">17</sup>How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south wind?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037018">18</sup>Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037019">19</sup>Teach us what we shall say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037020">20</sup>Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037021">21</sup>And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037022">22</sup>Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible majesty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037023">23</sup>Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037024">24</sup>Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise of heart.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">38</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">38</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038001">1</sup>Then the <b>Lord</b> answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038002">2</sup>Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038003">3</sup>Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038004">4</sup>Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038005">5</sup>Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038006">6</sup>Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038007">7</sup>When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038008">8</sup>Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038009">9</sup>When I made the cloud the garment thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038010">10</sup>And brake up for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038011">11</sup>And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038012">12</sup>Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; and caused the dayspring to know his place;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038013">13</sup>That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038014">14</sup>It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as a garment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038015">15</sup>And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm shall be broken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038016">16</sup>Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou walked in the search of the depth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038017">17</sup>Have the gates of death been opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038018">18</sup>Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou knowest it all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038019">19</sup>Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness, where is the place thereof,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038020">20</sup>That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house thereof?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038021">21</sup>Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or because the number of thy days is great?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038022">22</sup>Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038023">23</sup>Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038024">24</sup>By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038025">25</sup>Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038026">26</sup>To cause it to rain on the earth, where no man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038027">27</sup>To satisfy the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038028">28</sup>Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten the drops of dew?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038029">29</sup>Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038030">30</sup>The waters are hid as with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038031">31</sup>Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038032">32</sup>Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038033">33</sup>Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038034">34</sup>Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038035">35</sup>Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go and say unto thee, Here we are?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038036">36</sup>Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the heart?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038037">37</sup>Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the bottles of heaven,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038038">38</sup>When the dust groweth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast together?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038039">39</sup>Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038040">40</sup>When they couch in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038041">41</sup>Who provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God, they wander for lack of meat.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">39</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">39</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039001">1</sup>Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039002">2</sup>Canst thou number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they bring forth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039003">3</sup>They bow themselves, they bring forth their young ones, they cast out their sorrows.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039004">4</sup>Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they go forth, and return not unto them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039005">5</sup>Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039006">6</sup>Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the barren land his dwellings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039007">7</sup>He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the crying of the driver.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039008">8</sup>The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after every green thing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039009">9</sup>Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039010">10</sup>Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039011">11</sup>Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039012">12</sup>Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy barn?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039013">13</sup>Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039014">14</sup>Which leaveth her eggs in the earth, and warmeth them in dust,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039015">15</sup>And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039016">16</sup>She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not her’s: her labour is in vain without fear;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039017">17</sup>Because God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039018">18</sup>What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse and his rider.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039019">19</sup>Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039020">20</sup>Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the glory of his nostrils is terrible.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039021">21</sup>He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth on to meet the armed men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039022">22</sup>He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he back from the sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039023">23</sup>The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the shield.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039024">24</sup>He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039025">25</sup>He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039026">26</sup>Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward the south?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039027">27</sup>Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest on high?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039028">28</sup>She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the crag of the rock, and the strong place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039029">29</sup>From thence she seeketh the prey, and her eyes behold afar off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039030">30</sup>Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain are, there is she.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">40</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">40</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040001">1</sup>Moreover the <b>Lord</b> answered Job, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040002">2</sup>Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth God, let him answer it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040003">3</sup>Then Job answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040004">4</sup>Behold, I am vile; what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040005">5</sup>Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will proceed no further.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040006">6</sup>Then answered the <b>Lord</b> unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040007">7</sup>Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040008">8</sup>Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be righteous?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040009">9</sup>Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040010">10</sup>Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040011">11</sup>Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one that is proud, and abase him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040012">12</sup>Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread down the wicked in their place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040013">13</sup>Hide them in the dust together; and bind their faces in secret.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040014">14</sup>Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040015">15</sup>Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040016">16</sup>Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040017">17</sup>He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040018">18</sup>His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars of iron.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040019">19</sup>He is the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make his sword to approach unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040020">20</sup>Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts of the field play.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040021">21</sup>He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and fens.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040022">22</sup>The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the brook compass him about.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040023">23</sup>Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not: he trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040024">24</sup>He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-41" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">41</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">41</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041001">1</sup>Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041002">2</sup>Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041003">3</sup>Will he make many supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041004">4</sup>Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant for ever?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041005">5</sup>Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041006">6</sup>Shall the companions make a banquet of him? shall they part him among the merchants?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041007">7</sup>Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041008">8</sup>Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041009">9</sup>Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041010">10</sup>None is so fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stand before me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041011">11</sup>Who hath prevented me, that I should repay him? whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041012">12</sup>I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely proportion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041013">13</sup>Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can come to him with his double bridle?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041014">14</sup>Who can open the doors of his face? his teeth are terrible round about.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041015">15</sup>His scales are his pride, shut up together as with a close seal.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041016">16</sup>One is so near to another, that no air can come between them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041017">17</sup>They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they cannot be sundered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041018">18</sup>By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041019">19</sup>Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041020">20</sup>Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or caldron.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041021">21</sup>His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041022">22</sup>In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041023">23</sup>The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in themselves; they cannot be moved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041024">24</sup>His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether millstone.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041025">25</sup>When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of breakings they purify themselves.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041026">26</sup>The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041027">27</sup>He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041028">28</sup>The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him into stubble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041029">29</sup>Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a spear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041030">30</sup>Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things upon the mire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041031">31</sup>He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a pot of ointment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041032">32</sup>He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to be hoary.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041033">33</sup>Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041034">34</sup>He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children of pride.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Job</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">42</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">42</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042001">1</sup>Then Job answered the <b>Lord</b>, and said,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042002">2</sup>I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042003">3</sup>Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042004">4</sup>Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042005">5</sup>I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042006">6</sup>Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042007">7</sup>And it was so, that after the <b>Lord</b> had spoken these words unto Job, the <b>Lord</b> said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042008">8</sup>Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042009">9</sup>So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the <b>Lord</b> commanded them: the <b>Lord</b> also accepted Job.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042010">10</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the <b>Lord</b> gave Job twice as much as he had before.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042011">11</sup>Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the <b>Lord</b> had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042012">12</sup>So the <b>Lord</b> blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042013">13</sup>He had also seven sons and three daughters.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042014">14</sup>And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042015">15</sup>And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042016">16</sup>After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042017">17</sup>So Job died, being old and full of days.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
