<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III John</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="new-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-64" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">III John</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Third Epistle of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">John</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>Because that for his name’s sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
