<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Nahum</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-34" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Nahum</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Book of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Nahum</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>God is jealous, and the <b>Lord</b> revengeth; the <b>Lord</b> revengeth, and is furious; the <b>Lord</b> will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked: the <b>Lord</b> hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all the rivers: Bashan languisheth, and Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon languisheth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world, and all that dwell therein.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>Who can stand before his indignation? and who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is good, a strong hold in the day of trouble; and he knoweth them that trust in him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>But with an overrunning flood he will make an utter end of the place thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>What do ye imagine against the <b>Lord</b>? he will make an utter end: affliction shall not rise up the second time.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>For while they be folden together as thorns, and while they are drunken as drunkards, they shall be devoured as stubble fully dry.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>There is one come out of thee, that imagineth evil against the <b>Lord</b>, a wicked counsellor.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>; Though they be quiet, and likewise many, yet thus shall they be cut down, when he shall pass through. Though I have afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>For now will I break his yoke from off thee, and will burst thy bonds in sunder.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> hath given a commandment concerning thee, that no more of thy name be sown: out of the house of thy gods will I cut off the graven image and the molten image: I will make thy grave; for thou art vile.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>Behold upon the mountains the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace! O Judah, keep thy solemn feasts, perform thy vows: for the wicked shall no more pass through thee; he is utterly cut off.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">2</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>He that dasheth in pieces is come up before thy face: keep the munition, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath turned away the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel: for the emptiers have emptied them out, and marred their vine branches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation, and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>He shall recount his worthies: they shall stumble in their walk; they shall make haste to the wall thereof, and the defence shall be prepared.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>The gates of the rivers shall be opened, and the palace shall be dissolved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>And Huzzab shall be led away captive, she shall be brought up, and her maids shall lead her as with the voice of doves, tabering upon their breasts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>But Nineveh is of old like a pool of water: yet they shall flee away. Stand, stand, shall they cry; but none shall look back.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold: for there is none end of the store and glory out of all the pleasant furniture.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>She is empty, and void, and waste: and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and much pain is in all loins, and the faces of them all gather blackness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>Where is the dwelling of the lions, and the feedingplace of the young lions, where the lion, even the old lion, walked, and the lion’s whelp, and none made them afraid?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his holes with prey, and his dens with ravin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002013">13</sup>Behold, I am against thee, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions: and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">3</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>Woe to the bloody city! it is all full of lies and robbery; the prey departeth not;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>The noise of a whip, and the noise of the rattling of the wheels, and of the pransing horses, and of the jumping chariots.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>The horseman lifteth up both the bright sword and the glittering spear: and there is a multitude of slain, and a great number of carcases; and there is none end of their corpses; they stumble upon their corpses:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the wellfavoured harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nations through her whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>Behold, I am against thee, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; and I will discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thy nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile, and will set thee as a gazingstock.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>And it shall come to pass, that all they that look upon thee shall flee from thee, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who will bemoan her? whence shall I seek comforters for thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>Art thou better than populous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the sea?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003009">9</sup>Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite; Put and Lubim were thy helpers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003010">10</sup>Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity: her young children also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: and they cast lots for her honourable men, and all her great men were bound in chains.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003011">11</sup>Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shalt seek strength because of the enemy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003012">12</sup>All thy strong holds shall be like fig trees with the firstripe figs: if they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of the eater.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003013">13</sup>Behold, thy people in the midst of thee are women: the gates of thy land shall be set wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shall devour thy bars.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003014">14</sup>Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strong holds: go into clay, and tread the morter, make strong the brickkiln.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003015">15</sup>There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off, it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyself many as the cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003016">16</sup>Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven: the cankerworm spoileth, and fleeth away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003017">17</sup>Thy crowned are as the locusts, and thy captains as the great grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day, but when the sun ariseth they flee away, and their place is not known where they are.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003018">18</sup>Thy shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria: thy nobles shall dwell in the dust: thy people is scattered upon the mountains, and no man gathereth them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003019">19</sup>There is no healing of thy bruise; thy wound is grievous: all that hear the bruit of thee shall clap the hands over thee: for upon whom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
