<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Isaiah</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="old-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-23" epub:type="volume">
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">1</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master’s crib: but Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the <b>Lord</b>, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>Except the <b>Lord</b> of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>Hear the word of the <b>Lord</b>, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the <b>Lord</b>: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001016">16</sup>Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001017">17</sup>Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001018">18</sup>Come now, and let us reason together, saith the <b>Lord</b>: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001019">19</sup>If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001020">20</sup>But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001021">21</sup>How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001022">22</sup>Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001023">23</sup>Thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one loveth gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001024">24</sup>Therefore saith the <b>Lord</b>, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001025">25</sup>And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001026">26</sup>And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001027">27</sup>Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001028">28</sup>And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the <b>Lord</b> shall be consumed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001029">29</sup>For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001030">30</sup>For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001031">31</sup>And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">2</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">2</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the <b>Lord</b>’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the <b>Lord</b>, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the <b>Lord</b> from Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>Their land also is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>And the mean man boweth down, and the great man humbleth himself: therefore forgive them not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the <b>Lord</b>, and for the glory of his majesty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the <b>Lord</b> alone shall be exalted in that day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>For the day of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002013">13</sup>And upon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002014">14</sup>And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002015">15</sup>And upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002016">16</sup>And upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002017">17</sup>And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low: and the <b>Lord</b> alone shall be exalted in that day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002018">18</sup>And the idols he shall utterly abolish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002019">19</sup>And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the <b>Lord</b>, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002020">20</sup>In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002021">21</sup>To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for fear of the <b>Lord</b>, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002022">22</sup>Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">3</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">3</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>For, behold, the Lord, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>The captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbour: the child shall behave himself proudly against the ancient, and the base against the honourable.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>In that day shall he swear, saying, I will not be an healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: make me not a ruler of the people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because their tongue and their doings are against the <b>Lord</b>, to provoke the eyes of his glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003009">9</sup>The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003010">10</sup>Say ye to the righteous, that it shall be well with him: for they shall eat the fruit of their doings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003011">11</sup>Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him: for the reward of his hands shall be given him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003012">12</sup>As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003013">13</sup>The <b>Lord</b> standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003015">15</sup>What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003016">16</sup>Moreover the <b>Lord</b> saith, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003017">17</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the <b>Lord</b> will discover their secret parts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003018">18</sup>In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires like the moon,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003019">19</sup>The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003020">20</sup>The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003021">21</sup>The rings, and nose jewels,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003022">22</sup>The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003023">23</sup>The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the vails.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003024">24</sup>And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003025">25</sup>Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003026">26</sup>And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she being desolate shall sit upon the ground.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">4</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">4</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004001">1</sup>And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004002">2</sup>In that day shall the branch of the <b>Lord</b> be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely for them that are escaped of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004003">3</sup>And it shall come to pass, that he that is left in Zion, and he that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004004">4</sup>When the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of burning.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004005">5</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> will create upon every dwelling place of mount Zion, and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night: for upon all the glory shall be a defence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-004006">6</sup>And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time from the heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert from storm and from rain.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">5</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">5</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005001">1</sup>Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005002">2</sup>And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005003">3</sup>And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005004">4</sup>What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005005">5</sup>And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005006">6</sup>And I will lay it waste: it shall not be pruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005007">7</sup>For the vineyard of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005008">8</sup>Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005009">9</sup>In mine ears said the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, Of a truth many houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005010">10</sup>Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of an homer shall yield an ephah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005011">11</sup>Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflame them!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005012">12</sup>And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the <b>Lord</b>, neither consider the operation of his hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005013">13</sup>Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they have no knowledge: and their honourable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005014">14</sup>Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005015">15</sup>And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005016">16</sup>But the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005017">17</sup>Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005018">18</sup>Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cart rope:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005019">19</sup>That say, Let him make speed, and hasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005020">20</sup>Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005021">21</sup>Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005022">22</sup>Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005023">23</sup>Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005024">24</sup>Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have cast away the law of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005025">25</sup>Therefore is the anger of the <b>Lord</b> kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005026">26</sup>And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall come with speed swiftly:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005027">27</sup>None shall be weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005028">28</sup>Whose arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses’ hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005029">29</sup>Their roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea, they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it away safe, and none shall deliver it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-005030">30</sup>And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea: and if one look unto the land, behold darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">6</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">6</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006001">1</sup>In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the <b>Lord</b> sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006002">2</sup>Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006003">3</sup>And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the <b>Lord</b> of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006004">4</sup>And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006005">5</sup>Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006006">6</sup>Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006007">7</sup>And he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006008">8</sup>Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006009">9</sup>And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006010">10</sup>Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006011">11</sup>Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006012">12</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> have removed men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-006013">13</sup>But yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall be eaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them, when they cast their leaves: so the holy seed shall be the substance thereof.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">7</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">7</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007001">1</sup>And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007002">2</sup>And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederate with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007003">3</sup>Then said the <b>Lord</b> unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007004">4</sup>And say unto him, Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither be fainthearted for the two tails of these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007005">5</sup>Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil counsel against thee, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007006">6</sup>Let us go up against Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabeal:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007007">7</sup>Thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, It shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007008">8</sup>For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be broken, that it be not a people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007009">9</sup>And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah’s son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007010">10</sup>Moreover the <b>Lord</b> spake again unto Ahaz, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007011">11</sup>Ask thee a sign of the <b>Lord</b> thy God; ask it either in the depth, or in the height above.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007012">12</sup>But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007013">13</sup>And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is it a small thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007014">14</sup>Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007015">15</sup>Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, and choose the good.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007016">16</sup>For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her kings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007017">17</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy father’s house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah; even the king of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007018">18</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the <b>Lord</b> shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007019">19</sup>And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon all bushes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007020">20</sup>In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired, namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, and the hair of the feet: and it shall also consume the beard.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007021">21</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish a young cow, and two sheep;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007022">22</sup>And it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk that they shall give he shall eat butter: for butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007023">23</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be, where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shall even be for briers and thorns.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007024">24</sup>With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because all the land shall become briers and thorns.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-007025">25</sup>And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there shall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns: but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lesser cattle.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">8</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">8</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008001">1</sup>Moreover the <b>Lord</b> said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and write in it with a man’s pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008002">2</sup>And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008003">3</sup>And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son. Then said the <b>Lord</b> to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008004">4</sup>For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> spake also unto me again, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008006">6</sup>Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008007">7</sup>Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, even the king of Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008008">8</sup>And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008009">9</sup>Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008010">10</sup>Take counsel together, and it shall come to nought; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008011">11</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008012">12</sup>Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008013">13</sup>Sanctify the <b>Lord</b> of hosts himself; and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008014">14</sup>And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008015">15</sup>And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008016">16</sup>Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008017">17</sup>And I will wait upon the <b>Lord</b>, that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008018">18</sup>Behold, I and the children whom the <b>Lord</b> hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008019">19</sup>And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should not a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008020">20</sup>To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008021">21</sup>And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: and it shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-008022">22</sup>And they shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish; and they shall be driven to darkness.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">9</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">9</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009001">1</sup>Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009002">2</sup>The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009003">3</sup>Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not increased the joy: they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009004">4</sup>For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009005">5</sup>For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009006">6</sup>For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009007">7</sup>Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts will perform this.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009008">8</sup>The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath lighted upon Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009009">9</sup>And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009010">10</sup>The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones: the sycomores are cut down, but we will change them into cedars.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009011">11</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> shall set up the adversaries of Rezin against him, and join his enemies together;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009012">12</sup>The Syrians before, and the Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009013">13</sup>For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them, neither do they seek the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009014">14</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> will cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush, in one day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009015">15</sup>The ancient and honourable, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009016">16</sup>For the leaders of this people cause them to err; and they that are led of them are destroyed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009017">17</sup>Therefore the <b>Lord</b> shall have no joy in their young men, neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows: for every one is an hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009018">18</sup>For wickedness burneth as the fire: it shall devour the briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forest, and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009019">19</sup>Through the wrath of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts is the land darkened, and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare his brother.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009020">20</sup>And he shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall not be satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-009021">21</sup>Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh: and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">10</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">10</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010001">1</sup>Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010002">2</sup>To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010003">3</sup>And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010004">4</sup>Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010005">5</sup>O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is mine indignation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010006">6</sup>I will send him against an hypocritical nation, and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and to take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010007">7</sup>Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but it is in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010008">8</sup>For he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010009">9</sup>Is not Calno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is not Samaria as Damascus?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010010">10</sup>As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010011">11</sup>Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010012">12</sup>Wherefore it shall come to pass, that when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount Zion and on Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his high looks.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010013">13</sup>For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom; for I am prudent: and I have removed the bounds of the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant man:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010014">14</sup>And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that are left, have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010015">15</sup>Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? or shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? as if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff should lift up itself, as if it were no wood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010016">16</sup>Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the burning of a fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010017">17</sup>And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flame: and it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briers in one day;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010018">18</sup>And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when a standard-bearer fainteth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010019">19</sup>And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010020">20</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the <b>Lord</b>, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010021">21</sup>The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010022">22</sup>For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010023">23</sup>For the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts shall make a consumption, even determined, in the midst of all the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010024">24</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts, O my people that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the manner of Egypt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010025">25</sup>For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010026">26</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb: and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010027">27</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010028">28</sup>He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath laid up his carriages:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010029">29</sup>They are gone over the passage: they have taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010030">30</sup>Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010031">31</sup>Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to flee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010032">32</sup>As yet shall he remain at Nob that day: he shall shake his hand against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010033">33</sup>Behold, the Lord, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, shall lop the bough with terror: and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and the haughty shall be humbled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-010034">34</sup>And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">11</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">11</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011001">1</sup>And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011002">2</sup>And the spirit of the <b>Lord</b> shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the <b>Lord</b>;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011003">3</sup>And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the <b>Lord</b>: and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011004">4</sup>But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth: with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011005">5</sup>And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011006">6</sup>The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011007">7</sup>And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011008">8</sup>And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’ den.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011009">9</sup>They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the <b>Lord</b>, as the waters cover the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011010">10</sup>And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek: and his rest shall be glorious.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011011">11</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011012">12</sup>And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011013">13</sup>The envy also of Ephraim shall depart, and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011014">14</sup>But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward the west; they shall spoil them of the east together: they shall lay their hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obey them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011015">15</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over dryshod.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-011016">16</sup>And there shall be an highway for the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria; like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">12</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">12</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012001">1</sup>And in that day thou shalt say, O <b>Lord</b>, I will praise thee: though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thou comfortedst me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012002">2</sup>Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: for the <b>Lord Jehovah</b> is my strength and my song; he also is become my salvation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012003">3</sup>Therefore with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012004">4</sup>And in that day shall ye say, Praise the <b>Lord</b>, call upon his name, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name is exalted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012005">5</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b>; for he hath done excellent things: this is known in all the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-012006">6</sup>Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion: for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">13</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">13</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013001">1</sup>The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013002">2</sup>Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013003">3</sup>I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty ones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013004">4</sup>The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered together: the <b>Lord</b> of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013005">5</sup>They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even the <b>Lord</b>, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013006">6</sup>Howl ye; for the day of the <b>Lord</b> is at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013007">7</sup>Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man’s heart shall melt:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013008">8</sup>And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013009">9</sup>Behold, the day of the <b>Lord</b> cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013010">10</sup>For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013011">11</sup>And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013012">12</sup>I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013013">13</sup>Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place, in the wrath of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013014">14</sup>And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every one into his own land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013015">15</sup>Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013016">16</sup>Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013017">17</sup>Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013018">18</sup>Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not spare children.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013019">19</sup>And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013020">20</sup>It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013021">21</sup>But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-013022">22</sup>And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">14</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">14</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014001">1</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and set them in their own land: and the strangers shall be joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014002">2</sup>And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place: and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the <b>Lord</b> for servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014003">3</sup>And it shall come to pass in the day that the <b>Lord</b> shall give thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014004">4</sup>That thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the oppressor ceased! the golden city ceased!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath broken the staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014006">6</sup>He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014007">7</sup>The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into singing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014008">8</sup>Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014009">9</sup>Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014010">10</sup>All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become weak as we? art thou become like unto us?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014011">11</sup>Thy pomp is brought down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014012">12</sup>How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014013">13</sup>For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014014">14</sup>I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014015">15</sup>Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014016">16</sup>They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014017">17</sup>That made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of his prisoners?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014018">18</sup>All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014019">19</sup>But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, and as the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcase trodden under feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014020">20</sup>Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast destroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shall never be renowned.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014021">21</sup>Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their fathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014022">22</sup>For I will rise up against them, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, and cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014023">23</sup>I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of water: and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014024">24</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014025">25</sup>That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014026">26</sup>This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014027">27</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014028">28</sup>In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014029">29</sup>Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that smote thee is broken: for out of the serpent’s root shall come forth a cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014030">30</sup>And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall slay thy remnant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014031">31</sup>Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved: for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in his appointed times.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-014032">32</sup>What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That the <b>Lord</b> hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">15</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">15</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015001">1</sup>The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid waste, and brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab is laid waste, and brought to silence;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015002">2</sup>He is gone up to Bajith, and to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, and over Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard cut off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015003">3</sup>In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on the tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl, weeping abundantly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015004">4</sup>And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out; his life shall be grievous unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015005">5</sup>My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shall flee unto Zoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith with weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they shall raise up a cry of destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015006">6</sup>For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay is withered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015007">7</sup>Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015008">8</sup>For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howling thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-015009">9</sup>For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the remnant of the land.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">16</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">16</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016001">1</sup>Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to the wilderness, unto the mount of the daughter of Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016002">2</sup>For it shall be, that, as a wandering bird cast out of the nest, so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016003">3</sup>Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him that wandereth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016004">4</sup>Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, the spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016005">5</sup>And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall sit upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking judgment, and hasting righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016006">6</sup>We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud: even of his haughtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: but his lies shall not be so.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016007">7</sup>Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for the foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn; surely they are stricken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016008">8</sup>For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah: the lords of the heathen have broken down the principal plants thereof, they are come even unto Jazer, they wandered through the wilderness: her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016009">9</sup>Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of Sibmah: I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: for the shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy harvest is fallen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016010">10</sup>And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field; and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither shall there be shouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in their presses; I have made their vintage shouting to cease.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016011">11</sup>Wherefore my bowels shall sound like an harp for Moab, and mine inward parts for Kirharesh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016012">12</sup>And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on the high place, that he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he shall not prevail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016013">13</sup>This is the word that the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken concerning Moab since that time.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-016014">14</sup>But now the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of an hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, with all that great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small and feeble.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">17</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">17</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017001">1</sup>The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017002">2</sup>The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, which shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017003">3</sup>The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of the children of Israel, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017004">4</sup>And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax lean.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017005">5</sup>And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn, and reapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be as he that gathereth ears in the valley of Rephaim.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017006">6</sup>Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an olive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough, four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017007">7</sup>At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall have respect to the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017008">8</sup>And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands, neither shall respect that which his fingers have made, either the groves, or the images.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017009">9</sup>In that day shall his strong cities be as a forsaken bough, and an uppermost branch, which they left because of the children of Israel: and there shall be desolation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017010">10</sup>Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast not been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thou plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017011">11</sup>In the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shalt thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017012">12</sup>Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like the noise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that make a rushing like the rushing of mighty waters!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017013">13</sup>The nations shall rush like the rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shall flee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-017014">14</sup>And behold at eveningtide trouble; and before the morning he is not. This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that rob us.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">18</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">18</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018001">1</sup>Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018002">2</sup>That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels of bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to a nation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivers have spoiled!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018003">3</sup>All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018004">4</sup>For so the <b>Lord</b> said unto me, I will take my rest, and I will consider in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018005">5</sup>For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfect, and the sour grape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigs with pruning hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018006">6</sup>They shall be left together unto the fowls of the mountains, and to the beasts of the earth: and the fowls shall summer upon them, and all the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-018007">7</sup>In that time shall the present be brought unto the <b>Lord</b> of hosts of a people scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible from their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot, whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the name of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, the mount Zion.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">19</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">19</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019001">1</sup>The burden of Egypt. Behold, the <b>Lord</b> rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019002">2</sup>And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019003">3</sup>And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019004">4</sup>And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019005">5</sup>And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019006">6</sup>And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks of defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall wither.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019007">7</sup>The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be no more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019008">8</sup>The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019009">9</sup>Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave networks, shall be confounded.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019010">10</sup>And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make sluices and ponds for fish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019011">11</sup>Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019012">12</sup>Where are they? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them know what the <b>Lord</b> of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019013">13</sup>The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of the tribes thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019014">14</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof: and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019015">15</sup>Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or tail, branch or rush, may do.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019016">16</sup>In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, which he shaketh over it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019017">17</sup>And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the counsel of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, which he hath determined against it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019018">18</sup>In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, and swear to the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; one shall be called, The city of destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019019">19</sup>In that day shall there be an altar to the <b>Lord</b> in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019020">20</sup>And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the <b>Lord</b> of hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the <b>Lord</b> because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one, and he shall deliver them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019021">21</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the <b>Lord</b> in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea, they shall vow a vow unto the <b>Lord</b>, and perform it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019022">22</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and they shall return even to the <b>Lord</b>, and he shall be intreated of them, and shall heal them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019023">23</sup>In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019024">24</sup>In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-019025">25</sup>Whom the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">20</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">20</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020001">1</sup>In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargon the king of Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020002">2</sup>At the same time spake the <b>Lord</b> by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and loose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy foot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020003">3</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked naked and barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and upon Ethiopia;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020004">4</sup>So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptians prisoners, and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and barefoot, even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020005">5</sup>And they shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia their expectation, and of Egypt their glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-020006">6</sup>And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold, such is our expectation, whither we flee for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria: and how shall we escape?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">21</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">21</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021001">1</sup>The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021002">2</sup>A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam: besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021003">3</sup>Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed down at the hearing of it; I was dismayed at the seeing of it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021004">4</sup>My heart panted, fearfulness affrighted me: the night of my pleasure hath he turned into fear unto me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021005">5</sup>Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, ye princes, and anoint the shield.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021006">6</sup>For thus hath the <b>Lord</b> said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let him declare what he seeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021007">7</sup>And he saw a chariot with a couple of horsemen, a chariot of asses, and a chariot of camels; and he hearkened diligently with much heed:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021008">8</sup>And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021009">9</sup>And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, with a couple of horsemen. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021010">10</sup>O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have heard of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021011">11</sup>The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021012">12</sup>The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021013">13</sup>The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye travelling companies of Dedanim.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021014">14</sup>The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought water to him that was thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that fled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021015">15</sup>For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021016">16</sup>For thus hath the <b>Lord</b> said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of an hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-021017">17</sup>And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel hath spoken it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">22</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">22</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022001">1</sup>The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, that thou art wholly gone up to the housetops?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022002">2</sup>Thou that art full of stirs, a tumultuous city, joyous city: thy slain men are not slain with the sword, nor dead in battle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022003">3</sup>All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archers: all that are found in thee are bound together, which have fled from far.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022004">4</sup>Therefore said I, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly, labour not to comfort me, because of the spoiling of the daughter of my people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022005">5</sup>For it is a day of trouble, and of treading down, and of perplexity by the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts in the valley of vision, breaking down the walls, and of crying to the mountains.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022006">6</sup>And Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022007">7</sup>And it shall come to pass, that thy choicest valleys shall be full of chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves in array at the gate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022008">8</sup>And he discovered the covering of Judah, and thou didst look in that day to the armour of the house of the forest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022009">9</sup>Ye have seen also the breaches of the city of David, that they are many: and ye gathered together the waters of the lower pool.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022010">10</sup>And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses have ye broken down to fortify the wall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022011">11</sup>Ye made also a ditch between the two walls for the water of the old pool: but ye have not looked unto the maker thereof, neither had respect unto him that fashioned it long ago.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022012">12</sup>And in that day did the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts call to weeping, and to mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022013">13</sup>And behold joy and gladness, slaying oxen, and killing sheep, eating flesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink; for to morrow we shall die.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022014">14</sup>And it was revealed in mine ears by the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you till ye die, saith the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022015">15</sup>Thus saith the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts, Go, get thee unto this treasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022016">16</sup>What hast thou here? and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here, as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, and that graveth an habitation for himself in a rock?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022017">17</sup>Behold, the <b>Lord</b> will carry thee away with a mighty captivity, and will surely cover thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022018">18</sup>He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thy glory shall be the shame of thy lord’s house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022019">19</sup>And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall he pull thee down.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022020">20</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022021">21</sup>And I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy government into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022022">22</sup>And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022023">23</sup>And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father’s house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022024">24</sup>And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father’s house, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-022025">25</sup>In that day, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall; and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">23</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">23</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023001">1</sup>The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of Chittim it is revealed to them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023002">2</sup>Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants of Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023003">3</sup>And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river, is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023004">4</sup>Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even the strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children, neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023005">5</sup>As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained at the report of Tyre.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023006">6</sup>Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023007">7</sup>Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her own feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023008">8</sup>Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of the earth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023009">9</sup>The <b>Lord</b> of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023010">10</sup>Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there is no more strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023011">11</sup>He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms: the <b>Lord</b> hath given a commandment against the merchant city, to destroy the strong holds thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023012">12</sup>And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed virgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also shalt thou have no rest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023013">13</sup>Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought it to ruin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023014">14</sup>Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023015">15</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after the end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023016">16</sup>Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be remembered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023017">17</sup>And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that the <b>Lord</b> will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-023018">18</sup>And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the <b>Lord</b>: it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be for them that dwell before the <b>Lord</b>, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">24</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">24</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024001">1</sup>Behold, the <b>Lord</b> maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024002">2</sup>And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024003">3</sup>The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken this word.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024004">4</sup>The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024005">5</sup>The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024006">6</sup>Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024007">7</sup>The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted do sigh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024008">8</sup>The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024009">9</sup>They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be bitter to them that drink it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024010">10</sup>The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up, that no man may come in.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024011">11</sup>There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024012">12</sup>In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024013">13</sup>When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024014">14</sup>They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty of the <b>Lord</b>, they shall cry aloud from the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024015">15</sup>Wherefore glorify ye the <b>Lord</b> in the fires, even the name of the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel in the isles of the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024016">16</sup>From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, even glory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto me! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024017">17</sup>Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024018">18</sup>And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024019">19</sup>The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024020">20</sup>The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024021">21</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the <b>Lord</b> shall punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024022">22</sup>And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days shall they be visited.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-024023">23</sup>Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">25</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">25</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025001">1</sup>O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025002">2</sup>For thou hast made of a city an heap; of a defenced city a ruin: a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025003">3</sup>Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the terrible nations shall fear thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025004">4</sup>For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025005">5</sup>Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in a dry place; even the heat with the shadow of a cloud: the branch of the terrible ones shall be brought low.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025006">6</sup>And in this mountain shall the <b>Lord</b> of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025007">7</sup>And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the vail that is spread over all nations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025008">8</sup>He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord <b>God</b> will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth: for the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025009">9</sup>And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is the <b>Lord</b>; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025010">10</sup>For in this mountain shall the hand of the <b>Lord</b> rest, and Moab shall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for the dunghill.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025011">11</sup>And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim: and he shall bring down their pride together with the spoils of their hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-025012">12</sup>And the fortress of the high fort of thy walls shall he bring down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">26</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">26</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026001">1</sup>In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have a strong city; salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026002">2</sup>Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026003">3</sup>Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee: because he trusteth in thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026004">4</sup>Trust ye in the <b>Lord</b> for ever: for in the <b>Lord Jehovah</b> is everlasting strength:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026005">5</sup>For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low, even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026006">6</sup>The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026007">7</sup>The way of the just is uprightness: thou, most upright, dost weigh the path of the just.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026008">8</sup>Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O <b>Lord</b>, have we waited for thee; the desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026009">9</sup>With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026010">10</sup>Let favour be shewed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026011">11</sup><b>Lord</b>, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: but they shall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people; yea, the fire of thine enemies shall devour them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026012">12</sup><b>Lord</b>, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought all our works in us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026013">13</sup>O <b>Lord</b> our God, other lords beside thee have had dominion over us: but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026014">14</sup>They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026015">15</sup>Thou hast increased the nation, O <b>Lord</b>, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed it far unto all the ends of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026016">16</sup><b>Lord</b>, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026017">17</sup>Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in thy sight, O <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026018">18</sup>We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026019">19</sup>Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026020">20</sup>Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-026021">21</sup>For, behold, the <b>Lord</b> cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">27</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">27</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027001">1</sup>In that day the <b>Lord</b> with his sore and great and strong sword shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027002">2</sup>In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyard of red wine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027003">3</sup>I the <b>Lord</b> do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027004">4</sup>Fury is not in me: who would set the briers and thorns against me in battle? I would go through them, I would burn them together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027005">5</sup>Or let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027006">6</sup>He shall cause them that come of Jacob to take root: Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027007">7</sup>Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? or is he slain according to the slaughter of them that are slain by him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027008">8</sup>In measure, when it shooteth forth, thou wilt debate with it: he stayeth his rough wind in the day of the east wind.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027009">9</sup>By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and this is all the fruit to take away his sin; when he maketh all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, the groves and images shall not stand up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027010">10</sup>Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and the habitation forsaken, and left like a wilderness: there shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027011">11</sup>When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off: the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of no understanding: therefore he that made them will not have mercy on them, and he that formed them will shew them no favour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027012">12</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the <b>Lord</b> shall beat off from the channel of the river unto the stream of Egypt, and ye shall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-027013">13</sup>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shall worship the <b>Lord</b> in the holy mount at Jerusalem.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">28</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">28</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028001">1</sup>Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose glorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head of the fat valleys of them that are overcome with wine!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028002">2</sup>Behold, the Lord hath a mighty and strong one, which as a tempest of hail and a destroying storm, as a flood of mighty waters overflowing, shall cast down to the earth with the hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028003">3</sup>The crown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden under feet:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028004">4</sup>And the glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be a fading flower, and as the hasty fruit before the summer; which when he that looketh upon it seeth, while it is yet in his hand he eateth it up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028005">5</sup>In that day shall the <b>Lord</b> of hosts be for a crown of glory, and for a diadem of beauty, unto the residue of his people,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028006">6</sup>And for a spirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and for strength to them that turn the battle to the gate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028007">7</sup>But they also have erred through wine, and through strong drink are out of the way; the priest and the prophet have erred through strong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way through strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028008">8</sup>For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no place clean.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028009">9</sup>Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the breasts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028010">10</sup>For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028011">11</sup>For with stammering lips and another tongue will he speak to this people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028012">12</sup>To whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause the weary to rest; and this is the refreshing: yet they would not hear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028013">13</sup>But the word of the <b>Lord</b> was unto them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028014">14</sup>Wherefore hear the word of the <b>Lord</b>, ye scornful men, that rule this people which is in Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028015">15</sup>Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028016">16</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believeth shall not make haste.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028017">17</sup>Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the plummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters shall overflow the hiding place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028018">18</sup>And your covenant with death shall be disannulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028019">19</sup>From the time that it goeth forth it shall take you: for morning by morning shall it pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be a vexation only to understand the report.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028020">20</sup>For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it: and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028021">21</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, his strange work; and bring to pass his act, his strange act.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028022">22</sup>Now therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong: for I have heard from the Lord <b>God</b> of hosts a consumption, even determined upon the whole earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028023">23</sup>Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028024">24</sup>Doth the plowman plow all day to sow? doth he open and break the clods of his ground?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028025">25</sup>When he hath made plain the face thereof, doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and cast in the principal wheat and the appointed barley and the rie in their place?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028026">26</sup>For his God doth instruct him to discretion, and doth teach him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028027">27</sup>For the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitches are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028028">28</sup>Bread corn is bruised; because he will not ever be threshing it, nor break it with the wheel of his cart, nor bruise it with his horsemen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-028029">29</sup>This also cometh forth from the <b>Lord</b> of hosts, which is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">29</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">29</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029001">1</sup>Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye year to year; let them kill sacrifices.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029002">2</sup>Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and sorrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029003">3</sup>And I will camp against thee round about, and will lay siege against thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029004">4</sup>And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice shall be, as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground, and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029005">5</sup>Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff that passeth away: yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029006">6</sup>Thou shalt be visited of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of devouring fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029007">7</sup>And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, even all that fight against her and her munition, and that distress her, shall be as a dream of a night vision.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029008">8</sup>It shall even be as when an hungry man dreameth, and, behold, he eateth; but he awaketh, and his soul is empty: or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and, behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and, behold, he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the multitude of all the nations be, that fight against mount Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029009">9</sup>Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029010">10</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes: the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he covered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029011">11</sup>And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029012">12</sup>And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I am not learned.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029013">13</sup>Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029014">14</sup>Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029015">15</sup>Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the <b>Lord</b>, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029016">16</sup>Surely your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter’s clay: for shall the work say of him that made it, He made me not? or shall the thing framed say of him that framed it, He had no understanding?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029017">17</sup>Is it not yet a very little while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029018">18</sup>And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029019">19</sup>The meek also shall increase their joy in the <b>Lord</b>, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029020">20</sup>For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029021">21</sup>That make a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029022">22</sup>Therefore thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029023">23</sup>But when he seeth his children, the work of mine hands, in the midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-029024">24</sup>They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and they that murmured shall learn doctrine.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">30</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">30</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030001">1</sup>Woe to the rebellious children, saith the <b>Lord</b>, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030002">2</sup>That walk to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030003">3</sup>Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030004">4</sup>For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030005">5</sup>They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, nor be an help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030006">6</sup>The burden of the beasts of the south: into the land of trouble and anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures upon the bunches of camels, to a people that shall not profit them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030007">7</sup>For the Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose: therefore have I cried concerning this, Their strength is to sit still.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030008">8</sup>Now go, write it before them in a table, and note it in a book, that it may be for the time to come for ever and ever:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030009">9</sup>That this is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear the law of the <b>Lord</b>:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030010">10</sup>Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030011">11</sup>Get you out of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030012">12</sup>Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030013">13</sup>Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030014">14</sup>And he shall break it as the breaking of the potters’ vessel that is broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall not be found in the bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth, or to take water withal out of the pit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030015">15</sup>For thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, the Holy One of Israel; In returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength: and ye would not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030016">16</sup>But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030017">17</sup>One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke of five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on an hill.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030018">18</sup>And therefore will the <b>Lord</b> wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you: for the <b>Lord</b> is a God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait for him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030019">19</sup>For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: thou shalt weep no more: he will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry; when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030020">20</sup>And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity, and the water of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be removed into a corner any more, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030021">21</sup>And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030022">22</sup>Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of silver, and the ornament of thy molten images of gold: thou shalt cast them away as a menstruous cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get thee hence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030023">23</sup>Then shall he give the rain of thy seed, that thou shalt sow the ground withal; and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall be fat and plenteous: in that day shall thy cattle feed in large pastures.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030024">24</sup>The oxen likewise and the young asses that ear the ground shall eat clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shovel and with the fan.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030025">25</sup>And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every high hill, rivers and streams of waters in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030026">26</sup>Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day that the <b>Lord</b> bindeth up the breach of his people, and healeth the stroke of their wound.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030027">27</sup>Behold, the name of the <b>Lord</b> cometh from far, burning with his anger, and the burden thereof is heavy: his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030028">28</sup>And his breath, as an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of vanity: and there shall be a bridle in the jaws of the people, causing them to err.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030029">29</sup>Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe to come into the mountain of the <b>Lord</b>, to the mighty One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030030">30</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, and shall shew the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation of his anger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030031">31</sup>For through the voice of the <b>Lord</b> shall the Assyrian be beaten down, which smote with a rod.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030032">32</sup>And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass, which the <b>Lord</b> shall lay upon him, it shall be with tabrets and harps: and in battles of shaking will he fight with it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-030033">33</sup>For Tophet is ordained of old; yea, for the king it is prepared; he hath made it deep and large: the pile thereof is fire and much wood; the breath of the <b>Lord</b>, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">31</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">31</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031001">1</sup>Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help; and stay on horses, and trust in chariots, because they are many; and in horsemen, because they are very strong; but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the <b>Lord</b>!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031002">2</sup>Yet he also is wise, and will bring evil, and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house of the evildoers, and against the help of them that work iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031003">3</sup>Now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses flesh, and not spirit. When the <b>Lord</b> shall stretch out his hand, both he that helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they all shall fail together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031004">4</sup>For thus hath the <b>Lord</b> spoken unto me, Like as the lion and the young lion roaring on his prey, when a multitude of shepherds is called forth against him, he will not be afraid of their voice, nor abase himself for the noise of them: so shall the <b>Lord</b> of hosts come down to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031005">5</sup>As birds flying, so will the <b>Lord</b> of hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will deliver it; and passing over he will preserve it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031006">6</sup>Turn ye unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeply revolted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031007">7</sup>For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which your own hands have made unto you for a sin.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031008">8</sup>Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man; and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-031009">9</sup>And he shall pass over to his strong hold for fear, and his princes shall be afraid of the ensign, saith the <b>Lord</b>, whose fire is in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">32</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">32</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032001">1</sup>Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032002">2</sup>And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032003">3</sup>And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears of them that hear shall hearken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032004">4</sup>The heart also of the rash shall understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032005">5</sup>The vile person shall be no more called liberal, nor the churl said to be bountiful.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032006">6</sup>For the vile person will speak villany, and his heart will work iniquity, to practise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the <b>Lord</b>, to make empty the soul of the hungry, and he will cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032007">7</sup>The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth wicked devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when the needy speaketh right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032008">8</sup>But the liberal deviseth liberal things; and by liberal things shall he stand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032009">9</sup>Rise up, ye women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye careless daughters; give ear unto my speech.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032010">10</sup>Many days and years shall ye be troubled, ye careless women: for the vintage shall fail, the gathering shall not come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032011">11</sup>Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye careless ones: strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon your loins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032012">12</sup>They shall lament for the teats, for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032013">13</sup>Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea, upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032014">14</sup>Because the palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left; the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032015">15</sup>Until the spirit be poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be counted for a forest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032016">16</sup>Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness remain in the fruitful field.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032017">17</sup>And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance for ever.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032018">18</sup>And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032019">19</sup>When it shall hail, coming down on the forest; and the city shall be low in a low place.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-032020">20</sup>Blessed are ye that sow beside all waters, that send forth thither the feet of the ox and the ass.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">33</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">33</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033001">1</sup>Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; and when thou shalt make an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033002">2</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033003">3</sup>At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033004">4</sup>And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the caterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033005">5</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with judgment and righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033006">6</sup>And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, and strength of salvation: the fear of the <b>Lord</b> is his treasure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033007">7</sup>Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033008">8</sup>The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033009">9</sup>The earth mourneth and languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewn down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their fruits.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033010">10</sup>Now will I rise, saith the <b>Lord</b>; now will I be exalted; now will I lift up myself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033011">11</sup>Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath, as fire, shall devour you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033012">12</sup>And the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033013">13</sup>Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033014">14</sup>The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033015">15</sup>He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033016">16</sup>He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033017">17</sup>Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033018">18</sup>Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033019">19</sup>Thou shalt not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033020">20</sup>Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033021">21</sup>But there the glorious <b>Lord</b> will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033022">22</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> is our judge, the <b>Lord</b> is our lawgiver, the <b>Lord</b> is our king; he will save us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033023">23</sup>Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-033024">24</sup>And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">34</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">34</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034001">1</sup>Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let the earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things that come forth of it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034002">2</sup>For the indignation of the <b>Lord</b> is upon all nations, and his fury upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034003">3</sup>Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come up out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with their blood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034004">4</sup>And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig from the fig tree.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034005">5</sup>For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034006">6</sup>The sword of the <b>Lord</b> is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams: for the <b>Lord</b> hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Idumea.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034007">7</sup>And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034008">8</sup>For it is the day of the <b>Lord</b>’s vengeance, and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034009">9</sup>And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034010">10</sup>It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034011">11</sup>But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034012">12</sup>They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034013">13</sup>And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in the fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, and a court for owls.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034014">14</sup>The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wild beasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; the screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of rest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034015">15</sup>There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered, every one with her mate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034016">16</sup>Seek ye out of the book of the <b>Lord</b>, and read: no one of these shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded, and his spirit it hath gathered them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-034017">17</sup>And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever, from generation to generation shall they dwell therein.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">35</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">35</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035001">1</sup>The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035002">2</sup>It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the <b>Lord</b>, and the excellency of our God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035003">3</sup>Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035004">4</sup>Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence; he will come and save you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035005">5</sup>Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035006">6</sup>Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035007">7</sup>And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be grass with reeds and rushes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035008">8</sup>And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035009">9</sup>No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk there:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-035010">10</sup>And the ransomed of the <b>Lord</b> shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">36</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">36</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036001">1</sup>Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, that Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced cities of Judah, and took them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036002">2</sup>And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem unto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036003">3</sup>Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah’s son, which was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, Asaph’s son, the recorder.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036004">4</sup>And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036005">5</sup>I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words) I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036006">6</sup>Lo, thou trustest in the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust in him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036007">7</sup>But if thou say to me, We trust in the <b>Lord</b> our God: is it not he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036008">8</sup>Now therefore give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036009">9</sup>How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master’s servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036010">10</sup>And am I now come up without the <b>Lord</b> against this land to destroy it? the <b>Lord</b> said unto me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036011">11</sup>Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand it: and speak not to us in the Jews’ language, in the ears of the people that are on the wall.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036012">12</sup>But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to thee to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men that sit upon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own piss with you?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036013">13</sup>Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews’ language, and said, Hear ye the words of the great king, the king of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036014">14</sup>Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036015">15</sup>Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the <b>Lord</b>, saying, The <b>Lord</b> will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036016">16</sup>Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me: and eat ye every one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his own cistern;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036017">17</sup>Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036018">18</sup>Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, the <b>Lord</b> will deliver us. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036019">19</sup>Where are the gods of Hamath and Arphad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036020">20</sup>Who are they among all the gods of these lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that the <b>Lord</b> should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036021">21</sup>But they held their peace, and answered him not a word: for the king’s commandment was, saying, Answer him not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-036022">22</sup>Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">37</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">37</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037001">1</sup>And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037002">2</sup>And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth, unto Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037003">3</sup>And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037004">4</sup>It may be the <b>Lord</b> thy God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the <b>Lord</b> thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037005">5</sup>So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037006">6</sup>And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say unto your master, Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard, wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037007">7</sup>Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour, and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037008">8</sup>So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037009">9</sup>And he heard say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is come forth to make war with thee. And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037010">10</sup>Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, Let not thy God, in whom thou trustest, deceive thee, saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037011">11</sup>Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be delivered?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037012">12</sup>Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed, as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden which were in Telassar?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037013">13</sup>Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037014">14</sup>And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up unto the house of the <b>Lord</b>, and spread it before the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037015">15</sup>And Hezekiah prayed unto the <b>Lord</b>, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037016">16</sup>O <b>Lord</b> of hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth: thou hast made heaven and earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037017">17</sup>Incline thine ear, O <b>Lord</b>, and hear; open thine eyes, O <b>Lord</b>, and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent to reproach the living God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037018">18</sup>Of a truth, <b>Lord</b>, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations, and their countries,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037019">19</sup>And have cast their gods into the fire: for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone: therefore they have destroyed them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037020">20</sup>Now therefore, O <b>Lord</b> our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the <b>Lord</b>, even thou only.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037021">21</sup>Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037022">22</sup>This is the word which the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken concerning him; The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037023">23</sup>Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037024">24</sup>By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, By the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the mountains, to the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter into the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037025">25</sup>I have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the rivers of the besieged places.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037026">26</sup>Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of ancient times, that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou shouldest be to lay waste defenced cities into ruinous heaps.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037027">27</sup>Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded: they were as the grass of the field, and as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted before it be grown up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037028">28</sup>But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037029">29</sup>Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up into mine ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037030">30</sup>And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth of the same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037031">31</sup>And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037032">32</sup>For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out of mount Zion: the zeal of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts shall do this.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037033">33</sup>Therefore thus saith the <b>Lord</b> concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037034">34</sup>By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037035">35</sup>For I will defend this city to save it for mine own sake, and for my servant David’s sake.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037036">36</sup>Then the angel of the <b>Lord</b> went forth, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand: and when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037037">37</sup>So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-037038">38</sup>And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Armenia: and Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">38</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">38</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038001">1</sup>In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038002">2</sup>Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the <b>Lord</b>,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038003">3</sup>And said, Remember now, O <b>Lord</b>, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038004">4</sup>Then came the word of the <b>Lord</b> to Isaiah, saying,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038005">5</sup>Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038006">6</sup>And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria: and I will defend this city.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038007">7</sup>And this shall be a sign unto thee from the <b>Lord</b>, that the <b>Lord</b> will do this thing that he hath spoken;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038008">8</sup>Behold, I will bring again the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in the sun dial of Ahaz, ten degrees backward. So the sun returned ten degrees, by which degrees it was gone down.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038009">9</sup>The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and was recovered of his sickness:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038010">10</sup>I said in the cutting off of my days, I shall go to the gates of the grave: I am deprived of the residue of my years.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038011">11</sup>I said, I shall not see the <b>Lord</b>, even the <b>Lord</b>, in the land of the living: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038012">12</sup>Mine age is departed, and is removed from me as a shepherd’s tent: I have cut off like a weaver my life: he will cut me off with pining sickness: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038013">13</sup>I reckoned till morning, that, as a lion, so will he break all my bones: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038014">14</sup>Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourn as a dove: mine eyes fail with looking upward: O <b>Lord</b>, I am oppressed; undertake for me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038015">15</sup>What shall I say? he hath both spoken unto me, and himself hath done it: I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038016">16</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, by these things men live, and in all these things is the life of my spirit: so wilt thou recover me, and make me to live.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038017">17</sup>Behold, for peace I had great bitterness: but thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption: for thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038018">18</sup>For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee: they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038019">19</sup>The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day: the father to the children shall make known thy truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038020">20</sup>The <b>Lord</b> was ready to save me: therefore we will sing my songs to the stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038021">21</sup>For Isaiah had said, Let them take a lump of figs, and lay it for a plaister upon the boil, and he shall recover.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-038022">22</sup>Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the <b>Lord</b>?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">39</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">39</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039001">1</sup>At that time Merodachbaladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: for he had heard that he had been sick, and was recovered.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039002">2</sup>And Hezekiah was glad of them, and shewed them the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039003">3</sup>Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039004">4</sup>Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in mine house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shewed them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039005">5</sup>Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the <b>Lord</b> of hosts:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039006">6</sup>Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039007">7</sup>And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-039008">8</sup>Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of the <b>Lord</b> which thou hast spoken. He said moreover, For there shall be peace and truth in my days.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">40</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">40</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040001">1</sup>Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040002">2</sup>Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath received of the <b>Lord</b>’s hand double for all her sins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040003">3</sup>The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the <b>Lord</b>, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040004">4</sup>Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040005">5</sup>And the glory of the <b>Lord</b> shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040006">6</sup>The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040007">7</sup>The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the <b>Lord</b> bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040008">8</sup>The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God shall stand for ever.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040009">9</sup>O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040010">10</sup>Behold, the Lord <b>God</b> will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040011">11</sup>He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040012">12</sup>Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040013">13</sup>Who hath directed the Spirit of the <b>Lord</b>, or being his counsellor hath taught him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040014">14</sup>With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040015">15</sup>Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040016">16</sup>And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt offering.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040017">17</sup>All nations before him are as nothing; and they are counted to him less than nothing, and vanity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040018">18</sup>To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare unto him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040019">19</sup>The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040020">20</sup>He that is so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth a tree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a cunning workman to prepare a graven image, that shall not be moved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040021">21</sup>Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040022">22</sup>It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040023">23</sup>That bringeth the princes to nothing; he maketh the judges of the earth as vanity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040024">24</sup>Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040025">25</sup>To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040026">26</sup>Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these things, that bringeth out their host by number: he calleth them all by names by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong in power; not one faileth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040027">27</sup>Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the <b>Lord</b>, and my judgment is passed over from my God?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040028">28</sup>Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the <b>Lord</b>, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his understanding.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040029">29</sup>He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040030">30</sup>Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-040031">31</sup>But they that wait upon the <b>Lord</b> shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-41" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">41</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">41</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041001">1</sup>Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew their strength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come near together to judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041002">2</sup>Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his foot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over kings? he gave them as the dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his bow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041003">3</sup>He pursued them, and passed safely; even by the way that he had not gone with his feet.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041004">4</sup>Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? I the <b>Lord</b>, the first, and with the last; I am he.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041005">5</sup>The isles saw it, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid, drew near, and came.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041006">6</sup>They helped every one his neighbour; and every one said to his brother, Be of good courage.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041007">7</sup>So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he that smootheth with the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It is ready for the sodering: and he fastened it with nails, that it should not be moved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041008">8</sup>But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041009">9</sup>Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041010">10</sup>Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041011">11</sup>Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041012">12</sup>Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041013">13</sup>For I the <b>Lord</b> thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041014">14</sup>Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith the <b>Lord</b>, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041015">15</sup>Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt make the hills as chaff.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041016">16</sup>Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the <b>Lord</b>, and shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041017">17</sup>When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst, I the <b>Lord</b> will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041018">18</sup>I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041019">19</sup>I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree, and the pine, and the box tree together:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041020">20</sup>That they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the <b>Lord</b> hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041021">21</sup>Produce your cause, saith the <b>Lord</b>; bring forth your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041022">22</sup>Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041023">23</sup>Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold it together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041024">24</sup>Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: an abomination is he that chooseth you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041025">25</sup>I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041026">26</sup>Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none that sheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that heareth your words.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041027">27</sup>The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041028">28</sup>For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and there was no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-041029">29</sup>Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: their molten images are wind and confusion.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">42</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">42</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042001">1</sup>Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042002">2</sup>He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042003">3</sup>A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042004">4</sup>He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042005">5</sup>Thus saith God the <b>Lord</b>, he that created the heavens, and stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042006">6</sup>I the <b>Lord</b> have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042007">7</sup>To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042008">8</sup>I am the <b>Lord</b>: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042009">9</sup>Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042010">10</sup>Sing unto the <b>Lord</b> a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and the inhabitants thereof.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042011">11</sup>Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042012">12</sup>Let them give glory unto the <b>Lord</b>, and declare his praise in the islands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042013">13</sup>The <b>Lord</b> shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042014">14</sup>I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I will destroy and devour at once.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042015">15</sup>I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042016">16</sup>And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042017">17</sup>They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are our gods.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042018">18</sup>Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042019">19</sup>Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the <b>Lord</b>’s servant?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042020">20</sup>Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042021">21</sup>The <b>Lord</b> is well pleased for his righteousness’ sake; he will magnify the law, and make it honourable.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042022">22</sup>But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042023">23</sup>Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hear for the time to come?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042024">24</sup>Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not the <b>Lord</b>, he against whom we have sinned? for they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his law.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-042025">25</sup>Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-43" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">43</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">43</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043001">1</sup>But now thus saith the <b>Lord</b> that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043002">2</sup>When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043003">3</sup>For I am the <b>Lord</b> thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043004">4</sup>Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and people for thy life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043005">5</sup>Fear not: for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043006">6</sup>I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043007">7</sup>Even every one that is called by my name: for I have created him for my glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043008">8</sup>Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043009">9</sup>Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this, and shew us former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified: or let them hear, and say, It is truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043010">10</sup>Ye are my witnesses, saith the <b>Lord</b>, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043011">11</sup>I, even I, am the <b>Lord</b>; and beside me there is no saviour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043012">12</sup>I have declared, and have saved, and I have shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the <b>Lord</b>, that I am God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043013">13</sup>Yea, before the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043014">14</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, and the Chaldeans, whose cry is in the ships.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043015">15</sup>I am the <b>Lord</b>, your Holy One, the creator of Israel, your King.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043016">16</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, which maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043017">17</sup>Which bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, they shall not rise: they are extinct, they are quenched as tow.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043018">18</sup>Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043019">19</sup>Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043020">20</sup>The beast of the field shall honour me, the dragons and the owls: because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043021">21</sup>This people have I formed for myself; they shall shew forth my praise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043022">22</sup>But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043023">23</sup>Thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt offerings; neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to serve with an offering, nor wearied thee with incense.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043024">24</sup>Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices: but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043025">25</sup>I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043026">26</sup>Put me in remembrance: let us plead together: declare thou, that thou mayest be justified.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043027">27</sup>Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-043028">28</sup>Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and have given Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reproaches.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">44</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">44</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044001">1</sup>Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044002">2</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, which will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou, Jesurun, whom I have chosen.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044003">3</sup>For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044004">4</sup>And they shall spring up as among the grass, as willows by the water courses.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044005">5</sup>One shall say, I am the <b>Lord</b>’s; and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto the <b>Lord</b>, and surname himself by the name of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044006">6</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> the King of Israel, and his redeemer the <b>Lord</b> of hosts; I am the first, and I am the last; and beside me there is no God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044007">7</sup>And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044008">8</sup>Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from that time, and have declared it? ye are even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? yea, there is no God; I know not any.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044009">9</sup>They that make a graven image are all of them vanity; and their delectable things shall not profit; and they are their own witnesses; they see not, nor know; that they may be ashamed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044010">10</sup>Who hath formed a god, or molten a graven image that is profitable for nothing?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044011">11</sup>Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed: and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; yet they shall fear, and they shall be ashamed together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044012">12</sup>The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his arms: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth: he drinketh no water, and is faint.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044013">13</sup>The carpenter stretcheth out his rule; he marketh it out with a line; he fitteth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man; that it may remain in the house.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044014">14</sup>He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest: he planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044015">15</sup>Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take thereof, and warm himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread; yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044016">16</sup>He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth himself, and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044017">17</sup>And the residue thereof he maketh a god, even his graven image: he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth it, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me; for thou art my god.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044018">18</sup>They have not known nor understood: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044019">19</sup>And none considereth in his heart, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh, and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044020">20</sup>He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044021">21</sup>Remember these, O Jacob and Israel; for thou art my servant: I have formed thee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044022">22</sup>I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044023">23</sup>Sing, O ye heavens; for the <b>Lord</b> hath done it: shout, ye lower parts of the earth: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for the <b>Lord</b> hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044024">24</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, thy redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb, I am the <b>Lord</b> that maketh all things; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044025">25</sup>That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044026">26</sup>That confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be inhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built, and I will raise up the decayed places thereof:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044027">27</sup>That saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-044028">28</sup>That saith of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-45" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">45</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">45</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045001">1</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b> to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins of kings, to open before him the two leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045002">2</sup>I will go before thee, and make the crooked places straight: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in sunder the bars of iron:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045003">3</sup>And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, the <b>Lord</b>, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045004">4</sup>For Jacob my servant’s sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even called thee by thy name: I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045005">5</sup>I am the <b>Lord</b>, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045006">6</sup>That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside me. I am the <b>Lord</b>, and there is none else.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045007">7</sup>I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the <b>Lord</b> do all these things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045008">8</sup>Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let righteousness spring up together; I the <b>Lord</b> have created it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045009">9</sup>Woe unto him that striveth with his Maker! Let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth. Shall the clay say to him that fashioneth it, What makest thou? or thy work, He hath no hands?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045010">10</sup>Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What begettest thou? or to the woman, What hast thou brought forth?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045011">11</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker, Ask me of things to come concerning my sons, and concerning the work of my hands command ye me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045012">12</sup>I have made the earth, and created man upon it: I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have I commanded.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045013">13</sup>I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct all his ways: he shall build my city, and he shall let go my captives, not for price nor reward, saith the <b>Lord</b> of hosts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045014">14</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, The labour of Egypt, and merchandise of Ethiopia and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they shall be thine: they shall come after thee; in chains they shall come over, and they shall fall down unto thee, they shall make supplication unto thee, saying, Surely God is in thee; and there is none else, there is no God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045015">15</sup>Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045016">16</sup>They shall be ashamed, and also confounded, all of them: they shall go to confusion together that are makers of idols.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045017">17</sup>But Israel shall be saved in the <b>Lord</b> with an everlasting salvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded world without end.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045018">18</sup>For thus saith the <b>Lord</b> that created the heavens; God himself that formed the earth and made it; he hath established it, he created it not in vain, he formed it to be inhabited: I am the <b>Lord</b>; and there is none else.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045019">19</sup>I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth: I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain: I the <b>Lord</b> speak righteousness, I declare things that are right.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045020">20</sup>Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, ye that are escaped of the nations: they have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven image, and pray unto a god that cannot save.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045021">21</sup>Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take counsel together: who hath declared this from ancient time? who hath told it from that time? have not I the <b>Lord</b>? and there is no God else beside me; a just God and a Saviour; there is none beside me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045022">22</sup>Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth: for I am God, and there is none else.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045023">23</sup>I have sworn by myself, the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, That unto me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045024">24</sup>Surely, shall one say, in the <b>Lord</b> have I righteousness and strength: even to him shall men come; and all that are incensed against him shall be ashamed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-045025">25</sup>In the <b>Lord</b> shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-46" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">46</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">46</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046001">1</sup>Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, their idols were upon the beasts, and upon the cattle: your carriages were heavy loaden; they are a burden to the weary beast.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046002">2</sup>They stoop, they bow down together; they could not deliver the burden, but themselves are gone into captivity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046003">3</sup>Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, which are borne by me from the belly, which are carried from the womb:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046004">4</sup>And even to your old age I am he; and even to hoar hairs will I carry you: I have made, and I will bear; even I will carry, and will deliver you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046005">5</sup>To whom will ye liken me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be like?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046006">6</sup>They lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in the balance, and hire a goldsmith; and he maketh it a god: they fall down, yea, they worship.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046007">7</sup>They bear him upon the shoulder, they carry him, and set him in his place, and he standeth; from his place shall he not remove: yea, one shall cry unto him, yet can he not answer, nor save him out of his trouble.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046008">8</sup>Remember this, and shew yourselves men: bring it again to mind, O ye transgressors.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046009">9</sup>Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else; I am God, and there is none like me,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046010">10</sup>Declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046011">11</sup>Calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man that executeth my counsel from a far country: yea, I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass; I have purposed it, I will also do it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046012">12</sup>Hearken unto me, ye stouthearted, that are far from righteousness:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-046013">13</sup>I bring near my righteousness; it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry: and I will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-47" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">47</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">47</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047001">1</sup>Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit on the ground: there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047002">2</sup>Take the millstones, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, make bare the leg, uncover the thigh, pass over the rivers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047003">3</sup>Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and I will not meet thee as a man.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047004">4</sup>As for our redeemer, the <b>Lord</b> of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047005">5</sup>Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047006">6</sup>I was wroth with my people, I have polluted mine inheritance, and given them into thine hand: thou didst shew them no mercy; upon the ancient hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047007">7</sup>And thou saidst, I shall be a lady for ever: so that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter end of it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047008">8</sup>Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, that dwellest carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047009">9</sup>But these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood: they shall come upon thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, and for the great abundance of thine enchantments.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047010">10</sup>For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, None seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; and thou hast said in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047011">11</sup>Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know from whence it riseth: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not be able to put it off: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou shalt not know.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047012">12</sup>Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast laboured from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047013">13</sup>Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047014">14</sup>Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: there shall not be a coal to warm at, nor fire to sit before it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-047015">15</sup>Thus shall they be unto thee with whom thou hast laboured, even thy merchants, from thy youth: they shall wander every one to his quarter; none shall save thee.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-48" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">48</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">48</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048001">1</sup>Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear by the name of the <b>Lord</b>, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048002">2</sup>For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is his name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048003">3</sup>I have declared the former things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did them suddenly, and they came to pass.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048004">4</sup>Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048005">5</sup>I have even from the beginning declared it to thee; before it came to pass I shewed it thee: lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048006">6</sup>Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare it? I have shewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048007">7</sup>They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before the day when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048008">8</sup>Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that time that thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048009">9</sup>For my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048010">10</sup>Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048011">11</sup>For mine own sake, even for mine own sake, will I do it: for how should my name be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048012">12</sup>Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I am he; I am the first, I also am the last.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048013">13</sup>Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heavens: when I call unto them, they stand up together.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048014">14</sup>All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hath declared these things? The <b>Lord</b> hath loved him: he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048015">15</sup>I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048016">16</sup>Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret from the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord <b>God</b>, and his Spirit, hath sent me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048017">17</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I am the <b>Lord</b> thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048018">18</sup>O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048019">19</sup>Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048020">20</sup>Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth; say ye, The <b>Lord</b> hath redeemed his servant Jacob.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048021">21</sup>And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-048022">22</sup>There is no peace, saith the <b>Lord</b>, unto the wicked.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-49" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">49</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">49</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049001">1</sup>Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; The <b>Lord</b> hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049002">2</sup>And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath he hid me;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049003">3</sup>And said unto me, Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be glorified.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049004">4</sup>Then I said, I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strength for nought, and in vain: yet surely my judgment is with the <b>Lord</b>, and my work with my God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049005">5</sup>And now, saith the <b>Lord</b> that formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him, Though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the <b>Lord</b>, and my God shall be my strength.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049006">6</sup>And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049007">7</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to a servant of rulers, Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship, because of the <b>Lord</b> that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, and he shall choose thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049008">8</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, In an acceptable time have I heard thee, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee: and I will preserve thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049009">9</sup>That thou mayest say to the prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall be in all high places.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049010">10</sup>They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun smite them: for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049011">11</sup>And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be exalted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049012">12</sup>Behold, these shall come from far: and, lo, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049013">13</sup>Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains: for the <b>Lord</b> hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his afflicted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049014">14</sup>But Zion said, The <b>Lord</b> hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049015">15</sup>Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049016">16</sup>Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are continually before me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049017">17</sup>Thy children shall make haste; thy destroyers and they that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049018">18</sup>Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these gather themselves together, and come to thee. As I live, saith the <b>Lord</b>, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and bind them on thee, as a bride doeth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049019">19</sup>For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the inhabitants, and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049020">20</sup>The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the other, shall say again in thine ears, The place is too strait for me: give place to me that I may dwell.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049021">21</sup>Then shalt thou say in thine heart, Who hath begotten me these, seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a captive, and removing to and fro? and who hath brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; these, where had they been?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049022">22</sup>Thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people: and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049023">23</sup>And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their face toward the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the <b>Lord</b>: for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049024">24</sup>Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive delivered?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049025">25</sup>But thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered: for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy children.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-049026">26</sup>And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine: and all flesh shall know that I the <b>Lord</b> am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-50" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">50</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">50</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050001">1</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Where is the bill of your mother’s divorcement, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050002">2</sup>Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stinketh, because there is no water, and dieth for thirst.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050003">3</sup>I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050004">4</sup>The Lord <b>God</b> hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050005">5</sup>The Lord <b>God</b> hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away back.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050006">6</sup>I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050007">7</sup>For the Lord <b>God</b> will help me; therefore shall I not be confounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050008">8</sup>He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let us stand together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050009">9</sup>Behold, the Lord <b>God</b> will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? lo, they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat them up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050010">10</sup>Who is among you that feareth the <b>Lord</b>, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? let him trust in the name of the <b>Lord</b>, and stay upon his God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-050011">11</sup>Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down in sorrow.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-51" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">51</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">51</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051001">1</sup>Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seek the <b>Lord</b>: look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence ye are digged.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051002">2</sup>Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you: for I called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051003">3</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the <b>Lord</b>; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051004">4</sup>Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation: for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light of the people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051005">5</sup>My righteousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arms shall judge the people; the isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm shall they trust.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051006">6</sup>Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051007">7</sup>Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear ye not the reproach of men, neither be ye afraid of their revilings.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051008">8</sup>For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for ever, and my salvation from generation to generation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051009">9</sup>Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the <b>Lord</b>; awake, as in the ancient days, in the generations of old. Art thou not it that hath cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051010">10</sup>Art thou not it which hath dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051011">11</sup>Therefore the redeemed of the <b>Lord</b> shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their head: they shall obtain gladness and joy; and sorrow and mourning shall flee away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051012">12</sup>I, even I, am he that comforteth you: who art thou, that thou shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of man which shall be made as grass;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051013">13</sup>And forgettest the <b>Lord</b> thy maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and hast feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? and where is the fury of the oppressor?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051014">14</sup>The captive exile hasteneth that he may be loosed, and that he should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051015">15</sup>But I am the <b>Lord</b> thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves roared: The <b>Lord</b> of hosts is his name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051016">16</sup>And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051017">17</sup>Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand of the <b>Lord</b> the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs of the cup of trembling, and wrung them out.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051018">18</sup>There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she hath brought forth; neither is there any that taketh her by the hand of all the sons that she hath brought up.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051019">19</sup>These two things are come unto thee; who shall be sorry for thee? desolation, and destruction, and the famine, and the sword: by whom shall I comfort thee?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051020">20</sup>Thy sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets, as a wild bull in a net: they are full of the fury of the <b>Lord</b>, the rebuke of thy God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051021">21</sup>Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, but not with wine:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051022">22</sup>Thus saith thy Lord the <b>Lord</b>, and thy God that pleadeth the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembling, even the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou shalt no more drink it again:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-051023">23</sup>But I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee; which have said to thy soul, Bow down, that we may go over: and thou hast laid thy body as the ground, and as the street, to them that went over.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-52" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">52</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">52</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052001">1</sup>Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052002">2</sup>Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052003">3</sup>For thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052004">4</sup>For thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, My people went down aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052005">5</sup>Now therefore, what have I here, saith the <b>Lord</b>, that my people is taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl, saith the <b>Lord</b>; and my name continually every day is blasphemed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052006">6</sup>Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall know in that day that I am he that doth speak: behold, it is I.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052007">7</sup>How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052008">8</sup>Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the <b>Lord</b> shall bring again Zion.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052009">9</sup>Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the <b>Lord</b> hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052010">10</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052011">11</sup>Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052012">12</sup>For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for the <b>Lord</b> will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052013">13</sup>Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052014">14</sup>As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-052015">15</sup>So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-53" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">53</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">53</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053001">1</sup>Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the <b>Lord</b> revealed?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053002">2</sup>For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053003">3</sup>He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053004">4</sup>Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053005">5</sup>But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053006">6</sup>All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the <b>Lord</b> hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053007">7</sup>He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053008">8</sup>He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053009">9</sup>And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death; because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053010">10</sup>Yet it pleased the <b>Lord</b> to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the <b>Lord</b> shall prosper in his hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053011">11</sup>He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-053012">12</sup>Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-54" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">54</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">54</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054001">1</sup>Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054002">2</sup>Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054003">3</sup>For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054004">4</sup>Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thou confounded; for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054005">5</sup>For thy Maker is thine husband; the <b>Lord</b> of hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; The God of the whole earth shall he be called.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054006">6</sup>For the <b>Lord</b> hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054007">7</sup>For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054008">8</sup>In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the <b>Lord</b> thy Redeemer.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054009">9</sup>For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054010">10</sup>For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the <b>Lord</b> that hath mercy on thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054011">11</sup>O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted, behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thy foundations with sapphires.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054012">12</sup>And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054013">13</sup>And all thy children shall be taught of the <b>Lord</b>; and great shall be the peace of thy children.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054014">14</sup>In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far from oppression; for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for it shall not come near thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054015">15</sup>Behold, they shall surely gather together, but not by me: whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054016">16</sup>Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have created the waster to destroy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-054017">17</sup>No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the <b>Lord</b>, and their righteousness is of me, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-55" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">55</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">55</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055001">1</sup>Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055002">2</sup>Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your labour for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055003">3</sup>Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055004">4</sup>Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leader and commander to the people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055005">5</sup>Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the <b>Lord</b> thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath glorified thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055006">6</sup>Seek ye the <b>Lord</b> while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055007">7</sup>Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the <b>Lord</b>, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055008">8</sup>For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055009">9</sup>For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055010">10</sup>For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055011">11</sup>So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055012">12</sup>For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-055013">13</sup>Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the <b>Lord</b> for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-56" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">56</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">56</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056001">1</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056002">2</sup>Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056003">3</sup>Neither let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself to the <b>Lord</b>, speak, saying, The <b>Lord</b> hath utterly separated me from his people: neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056004">4</sup>For thus saith the <b>Lord</b> unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056005">5</sup>Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056006">6</sup>Also the sons of the stranger, that join themselves to the <b>Lord</b>, to serve him, and to love the name of the <b>Lord</b>, to be his servants, every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056007">7</sup>Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056008">8</sup>The Lord <b>God</b>, which gathereth the outcasts of Israel saith, Yet will I gather others to him, beside those that are gathered unto him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056009">9</sup>All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056010">10</sup>His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056011">11</sup>Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and they are shepherds that cannot understand: they all look to their own way, every one for his gain, from his quarter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-056012">12</sup>Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, and much more abundant.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-57" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">57</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">57</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057001">1</sup>The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart: and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057002">2</sup>He shall enter into peace: they shall rest in their beds, each one walking in his uprightness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057003">3</sup>But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the whore.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057004">4</sup>Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth, and draw out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057005">5</sup>Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slaying the children in the valleys under the clifts of the rocks?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057006">6</sup>Among the smooth stones of the stream is thy portion; they, they are thy lot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, thou hast offered a meat offering. Should I receive comfort in these?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057007">7</sup>Upon a lofty and high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither wentest thou up to offer sacrifice.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057008">8</sup>Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thy remembrance: for thou hast discovered thyself to another than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with them; thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057009">9</sup>And thou wentest to the king with ointment, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers far off, and didst debase thyself even unto hell.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057010">10</sup>Thou art wearied in the greatness of thy way; yet saidst thou not, There is no hope: thou hast found the life of thine hand; therefore thou wast not grieved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057011">11</sup>And of whom hast thou been afraid or feared, that thou hast lied, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of old, and thou fearest me not?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057012">12</sup>I will declare thy righteousness, and thy works; for they shall not profit thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057013">13</sup>When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee; but the wind shall carry them all away; vanity shall take them: but he that putteth his trust in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057014">14</sup>And shall say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumblingblock out of the way of my people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057015">15</sup>For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057016">16</sup>For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth: for the spirit should fail before me, and the souls which I have made.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057017">17</sup>For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him: I hid me, and was wroth, and he went on frowardly in the way of his heart.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057018">18</sup>I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057019">19</sup>I create the fruit of the lips; Peace, peace to him that is far off, and to him that is near, saith the <b>Lord</b>; and I will heal him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057020">20</sup>But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-057021">21</sup>There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-58" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">58</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">58</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058001">1</sup>Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and shew my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058002">2</sup>Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God: they ask of me the ordinances of justice; they take delight in approaching to God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058003">3</sup>Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not? wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, in the day of your fast ye find pleasure, and exact all your labours.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058004">4</sup>Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness: ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be heard on high.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058005">5</sup>Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul? is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the <b>Lord</b>?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058006">6</sup>Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058007">7</sup>Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058008">8</sup>Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the <b>Lord</b> shall be thy rereward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058009">9</sup>Then shalt thou call, and the <b>Lord</b> shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058010">10</sup>And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon day:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058011">11</sup>And the <b>Lord</b> shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058012">12</sup>And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058013">13</sup>If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the <b>Lord</b>, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-058014">14</sup>Then shalt thou delight thyself in the <b>Lord</b>; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the <b>Lord</b> hath spoken it.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-59" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">59</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">59</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059001">1</sup>Behold, the <b>Lord</b>’s hand is not shortened, that it cannot save; neither his ear heavy, that it cannot hear:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059002">2</sup>But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not hear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059003">3</sup>For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue hath muttered perverseness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059004">4</sup>None calleth for justice, nor any pleadeth for truth: they trust in vanity, and speak lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059005">5</sup>They hatch cockatrice’ eggs, and weave the spider’s web: he that eateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh out into a viper.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059006">6</sup>Their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they cover themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059007">7</sup>Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; wasting and destruction are in their paths.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059008">8</sup>The way of peace they know not; and there is no judgment in their goings: they have made them crooked paths: whosoever goeth therein shall not know peace.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059009">9</sup>Therefore is judgment far from us, neither doth justice overtake us: we wait for light, but behold obscurity; for brightness, but we walk in darkness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059010">10</sup>We grope for the wall like the blind, and we grope as if we had no eyes: we stumble at noon day as in the night; we are in desolate places as dead men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059011">11</sup>We roar all like bears, and mourn sore like doves: we look for judgment, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far off from us.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059012">12</sup>For our transgressions are multiplied before thee, and our sins testify against us: for our transgressions are with us; and as for our iniquities, we know them;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059013">13</sup>In transgressing and lying against the <b>Lord</b>, and departing away from our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059014">14</sup>And judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth afar off: for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059015">15</sup>Yea, truth faileth; and he that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey: and the <b>Lord</b> saw it, and it displeased him that there was no judgment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059016">16</sup>And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and his righteousness, it sustained him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059017">17</sup>For he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and an helmet of salvation upon his head; and he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059018">18</sup>According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, fury to his adversaries, recompence to his enemies; to the islands he will repay recompence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059019">19</sup>So shall they fear the name of the <b>Lord</b> from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the <b>Lord</b> shall lift up a standard against him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059020">20</sup>And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn from transgression in Jacob, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-059021">21</sup>As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the <b>Lord</b>; My spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth, shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed’s seed, saith the <b>Lord</b>, from henceforth and for ever.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-60" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">60</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">60</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060001">1</sup>Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the <b>Lord</b> is risen upon thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060002">2</sup>For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the <b>Lord</b> shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060003">3</sup>And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060004">4</sup>Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: all they gather themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060005">5</sup>Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060006">6</sup>The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring gold and incense; and they shall shew forth the praises of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060007">7</sup>All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister unto thee: they shall come up with acceptance on mine altar, and I will glorify the house of my glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060008">8</sup>Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060009">9</sup>Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, unto the name of the <b>Lord</b> thy God, and to the Holy One of Israel, because he hath glorified thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060010">10</sup>And the sons of strangers shall build up thy walls, and their kings shall minister unto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my favour have I had mercy on thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060011">11</sup>Therefore thy gates shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring unto thee the forces of the Gentiles, and that their kings may be brought.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060012">12</sup>For the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060013">13</sup>The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060014">14</sup>The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee; The city of the <b>Lord</b>, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060015">15</sup>Whereas thou has been forsaken and hated, so that no man went through thee, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060016">16</sup>Thou shalt also suck the milk of the Gentiles, and shalt suck the breast of kings: and thou shalt know that I the <b>Lord</b> am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060017">17</sup>For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron: I will also make thy officers peace, and thine exactors righteousness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060018">18</sup>Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nor destruction within thy borders; but thou shalt call thy walls Salvation, and thy gates Praise.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060019">19</sup>The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee: but the <b>Lord</b> shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060020">20</sup>Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself: for the <b>Lord</b> shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060021">21</sup>Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-060022">22</sup>A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the <b>Lord</b> will hasten it in his time.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-61" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">61</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">61</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061001">1</sup>The Spirit of the Lord <b>God</b> is upon me; because the <b>Lord</b> hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061002">2</sup>To proclaim the acceptable year of the <b>Lord</b>, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061003">3</sup>To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the <b>Lord</b>, that he might be glorified.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061004">4</sup>And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061005">5</sup>And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061006">6</sup>But ye shall be named the Priests of the <b>Lord</b>: men shall call you the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061007">7</sup>For your shame ye shall have double; and for confusion they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess the double: everlasting joy shall be unto them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061008">8</sup>For I the <b>Lord</b> love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering; and I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061009">9</sup>And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which the <b>Lord</b> hath blessed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061010">10</sup>I will greatly rejoice in the <b>Lord</b>, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-061011">11</sup>For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord <b>God</b> will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-62" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">62</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">62</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062001">1</sup>For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062002">2</sup>And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory: and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the <b>Lord</b> shall name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062003">3</sup>Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the <b>Lord</b>, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062004">4</sup>Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thy land Beulah: for the <b>Lord</b> delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062005">5</sup>For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee: and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062006">6</sup>I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shall never hold their peace day nor night: ye that make mention of the <b>Lord</b>, keep not silence,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062007">7</sup>And give him no rest, till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062008">8</sup>The <b>Lord</b> hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of his strength, Surely I will no more give thy corn to be meat for thine enemies; and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine, for the which thou hast laboured:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062009">9</sup>But they that have gathered it shall eat it, and praise the <b>Lord</b>; and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062010">10</sup>Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard for the people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062011">11</sup>Behold, the <b>Lord</b> hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-062012">12</sup>And they shall call them, The holy people, The redeemed of the <b>Lord</b>: and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-63" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">63</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">63</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063001">1</sup>Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063002">2</sup>Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winefat?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063003">3</sup>I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there was none with me: for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063004">4</sup>For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063005">5</sup>And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063006">6</sup>And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063007">7</sup>I will mention the lovingkindnesses of the <b>Lord</b>, and the praises of the <b>Lord</b>, according to all that the <b>Lord</b> hath bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063008">8</sup>For he said, Surely they are my people, children that will not lie: so he was their Saviour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063009">9</sup>In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063010">10</sup>But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he was turned to be their enemy, and he fought against them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063011">11</sup>Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, and his people, saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit within him?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063012">12</sup>That led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting name?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063013">13</sup>That led them through the deep, as an horse in the wilderness, that they should not stumble?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063014">14</sup>As a beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit of the <b>Lord</b> caused him to rest: so didst thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063015">15</sup>Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory: where is thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me? are they restrained?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063016">16</sup>Doubtless thou art our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O <b>Lord</b>, art our father, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063017">17</sup>O <b>Lord</b>, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardened our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants’ sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063018">18</sup>The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-063019">19</sup>We are thine: thou never barest rule over them; they were not called by thy name.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-64" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">64</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">64</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064001">1</sup>Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064002">2</sup>As when the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at thy presence!</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064003">3</sup>When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064004">4</sup>For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064005">5</sup>Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064006">6</sup>But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064007">7</sup>And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us, because of our iniquities.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064008">8</sup>But now, O <b>Lord</b>, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064009">9</sup>Be not wroth very sore, O <b>Lord</b>, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064010">10</sup>Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064011">11</sup>Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-064012">12</sup>Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O <b>Lord</b>? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-65" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">65</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">65</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065001">1</sup>I am sought of them that asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065002">2</sup>I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, which walketh in a way that was not good, after their own thoughts;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065003">3</sup>A people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face; that sacrificeth in gardens, and burneth incense upon altars of brick;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065004">4</sup>Which remain among the graves, and lodge in the monuments, which eat swine’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065005">5</sup>Which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065006">6</sup>Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, even recompense into their bosom,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065007">7</sup>Your iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith the <b>Lord</b>, which have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills: therefore will I measure their former work into their bosom.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065008">8</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, Destroy it not; for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants’ sakes, that I may not destroy them all.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065009">9</sup>And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains: and mine elect shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065010">10</sup>And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065011">11</sup>But ye are they that forsake the <b>Lord</b>, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065012">12</sup>Therefore will I number you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter: because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but did evil before mine eyes, and did choose that wherein I delighted not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065013">13</sup>Therefore thus saith the Lord <b>God</b>, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty: behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065014">14</sup>Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall howl for vexation of spirit.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065015">15</sup>And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen: for the Lord <b>God</b> shall slay thee, and call his servants by another name:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065016">16</sup>That he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065017">17</sup>For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065018">18</sup>But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create: for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065019">19</sup>And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people: and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065020">20</sup>There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall be accursed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065021">21</sup>And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065022">22</sup>They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065023">23</sup>They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they are the seed of the blessed of the <b>Lord</b>, and their offspring with them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065024">24</sup>And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-065025">25</sup>The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent’s meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-66" epub:type="chapter">
					<h6 hidden="hidden">
						<span epub:type="label">Isaiah</span>
						<span epub:type="title ordinal">66</span>
					</h6>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">66</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066001">1</sup>Thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, The heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: where is the house that ye build unto me? and where is the place of my rest?</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066002">2</sup>For all those things hath mine hand made, and all those things have been, saith the <b>Lord</b>: but to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066003">3</sup>He that killeth an ox is as if he slew a man; he that sacrificeth a lamb, as if he cut off a dog’s neck; he that offereth an oblation, as if he offered swine’s blood; he that burneth incense, as if he blessed an idol. Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delighteth in their abominations.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066004">4</sup>I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spake, they did not hear: but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that in which I delighted not.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066005">5</sup>Hear the word of the <b>Lord</b>, ye that tremble at his word; Your brethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name’s sake, said, Let the <b>Lord</b> be glorified: but he shall appear to your joy, and they shall be ashamed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066006">6</sup>A voice of noise from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of the <b>Lord</b> that rendereth recompence to his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066007">7</sup>Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a man child.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066008">8</sup>Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066009">9</sup>Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? saith the <b>Lord</b>: shall I cause to bring forth, and shut the womb? saith thy God.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066010">10</sup>Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all ye that love her: rejoice for joy with her, all ye that mourn for her:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066011">11</sup>That ye may suck, and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations; that ye may milk out, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066012">12</sup>For thus saith the <b>Lord</b>, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream: then shall ye suck, ye shall be borne upon her sides, and be dandled upon her knees.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066013">13</sup>As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066014">14</sup>And when ye see this, your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like an herb: and the hand of the <b>Lord</b> shall be known toward his servants, and his indignation toward his enemies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066015">15</sup>For, behold, the <b>Lord</b> will come with fire, and with his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066016">16</sup>For by fire and by his sword will the <b>Lord</b> plead with all flesh: and the slain of the <b>Lord</b> shall be many.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066017">17</sup>They that sanctify themselves, and purify themselves in the gardens behind one tree in the midst, eating swine’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066018">18</sup>For I know their works and their thoughts: it shall come, that I will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and see my glory.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066019">19</sup>And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those that escape of them unto the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that draw the bow, to Tubal, and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066020">20</sup>And they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the <b>Lord</b> out of all nations upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, saith the <b>Lord</b>, as the children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel into the house of the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066021">21</sup>And I will also take of them for priests and for Levites, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066022">22</sup>For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the <b>Lord</b>, so shall your seed and your name remain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066023">23</sup>And it shall come to pass, that from one new moon to another, and from one sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the <b>Lord</b>.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-066024">24</sup>And they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the men that have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorring unto all flesh.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
