<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II John</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="new-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-63" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">II John</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Second Epistle of</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">John</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>For the truth’s sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
