<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Titus</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="new-testament" epub:type="part">
			<section id="book-56" epub:type="volume">
				<header>
					<h4 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Titus</h4>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-subtitle" epub:type="subtitle">The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to</p>
					<p class="epub-type-z3998-title" epub:type="title">Titus</p>
				</header>
				<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">1</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001001">1</sup>Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001002">2</sup>In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001003">3</sup>But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001004">4</sup>To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001005">5</sup>For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001006">6</sup>If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001007">7</sup>For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001008">8</sup>But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001009">9</sup>Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001010">10</sup>For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001011">11</sup>Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre’s sake.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001012">12</sup>One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001013">13</sup>This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001014">14</sup>Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001015">15</sup>Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-001016">16</sup>They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">2</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002001">1</sup>But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002002">2</sup>That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002003">3</sup>The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002004">4</sup>That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002005">5</sup>To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002006">6</sup>Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002007">7</sup>In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002008">8</sup>Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002009">9</sup>Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002010">10</sup>Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002011">11</sup>For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002012">12</sup>Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002013">13</sup>Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002014">14</sup>Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-002015">15</sup>These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
					<p class="first-child"><span class="chapter-number">3</span><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003001">1</sup>Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003002">2</sup>To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003003">3</sup>For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003004">4</sup>But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003005">5</sup>Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003006">6</sup>Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003007">7</sup>That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003008">8</sup>This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003009">9</sup>But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003010">10</sup>A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003011">11</sup>Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003012">12</sup>When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003013">13</sup>Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003014">14</sup>And let our’s also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.</p>
					<p><sup class="verse-number" id="verse-003015">15</sup>All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
